







I believe Grey's Anatomy's Derek Shepherd said it best when he said "I have a thing for ferry boats". My favorite method of transportation is via ferry boat. For context, a ferry boat is a very large boat that transports passengers via car to their destination. Typically ferry boats are quite large and they offer passengers the ability to be able to roam around freely on deck, leaving their car parked below or just sit in their car for the duration of the trip. Ferries typically don't cover that long distance are used more regionally and locally. 
 
I like ferries because they're a lot larger than the traditional boat which reduces the amount of seasickness one experiences. This makes it possible to roam around on deck and watch the views. The best part of the experience is walking around on deck. From there, if it's a sunny day, its the perfect combination of warm sun and the wind from the water and the boat that keeps you warm but not too warm. The views are typically amazing. There are ferries in Washington State that transport people around the islands and offer stunning views of the mountains and the Seattle skyline especially at sunset.
 
Ferry rides are typically also very smooth. The middle deck above the car deck has an area with booths for seating as well as snacks and an area for coffee. The middle deck is a great way to experience the rid if you aren't feeling up to the wind. There are typically large windows that offer riders the chance to take in the views. The seating makes for a great way to watch the views but still have a conversation with your fellow passenger without having to yell over the wind.
 
I've always had positive experiences on ferries. Some of my favorite sunsets have been from a ferry. My family took a ferry up to Orcas Island from Anacortes and while the ride was fun, the island itself was not fun so I ended up getting on the phone with the Washington Department of Transportation in order to get a spot on the next ferry out. I took the ferry to an island this summer and it had the best view of the sunset on the water with the Seattle skyline in the background.
 
Ferry boats truly are a very fun mode of transportation. They're reliable, a novel way to experience travel and a fun experience that allows you to travel with very little effort on your part. They offer great views and good company. For those reason, I chose to ferry boats as the vehicle to discuss. 



