







I would like to talk about my first car, a 1996 Mazda Capella. It was a mid-size wagon of maroon color. We had it for about a year and sold it after that. We travelled a lot in that one year and the car was a loyal companion. 
 
We were having our gap year and wanted to travel by car. When we first saw the post of the sale, we were hooked. This was our dream car. The car was maintained well and in great shape. The maroon color was a killer color.  We decided to take it even though the sale price was a bit beyond our budget. We had our friend drive to the place where the car was located. The seller was nice enough to allow us to have the car with a lower price. We couldn’t be more happy.
 
The size of the wagon was perfect. As we were traveling, we packed all our clothes, foods and other essentials in the trunk. Though it was a bit heavy and slow when we were on the road, we didn’t have much to complain about. We wanted to enjoy the road trip as much as possible. Speed was not our primary concern. 
 
When we settled in one place, we would keep the car as empty and clean as possible. The previous owner has done a great job maintaining the car. We wanted to keep it that way.  However, nothing can be said for sure. We had an accident. At that time, we were working part time on a farm and I parked them in a wet patch. After we finished the work, being tired, I reversed the car into a tree hedge and the rear glass was shattered and the rear bumper got a big dent. I was upset about my own recklessness. The damage was done, we had to deal with it. My friend found a matching glass and helped me replace the broken one. 
 
After the farm season, we continued our road trip with the car. It has brought us to places we’ve never dreamed of.  At the end of the gap year, we had to say bye to the car, and went back to our normal life. We sold the car to the next owner at half the price we bought it for.  It was a bargain for both. 
 
The wagon had brought us so much joy, I will forever remember it.
 



