







One of the people in my life that I admire most is my grandfather, David Klein. I’ve had the privilege of knowing all four of my grandparents, and while I love them all I’ve gotten to know and admire my father’s father, David the most. He grew up in The Bronx, with three siblings and an Eastern European Jewish father, and a Protestant Christian mother. He and attended Columbia for his undergraduate degree and Berkely for a Master’s. There he was part of the anti-Vietnam war movement and became an overall hippy. He eventually ended up in Boston where he met my grandmother, and my father and aunt when they were all living in a commune together. He got along well with both her and her kids so eventually the four of them moved out of the commune and in together. He’s been with my grandmother ever since and currently, they are both retired in Seattle. I admire many things about him and the life his life including his bravery, empathy, and optimism. 
 
One of the features of my grandfather that endeared him to me, even as a small child, is his ability to tell incredibly good stories. As a professional actor, my grandfather knows how to perform and how to keep an audience’s attention, while many of the stories I’ve heard from my other grandparents drag and meander, his are always very entertaining. Some of my favorites include the time he met the poet Robert Frost and the time his theater group performed at Woodstock (I know these might seem fictitious, but I’ve seen the photo/video documentation of both these events). Beyond the Forest-Gump-reminiscent escapades, even the stories of my father as a small child or his work on early computers as a side office job are rendered funny and interesting by his skill as a performer. One thing I’ve noticed about people as they age is that as they become less alert and more used to receiving respect from others, their ability to tell a story decrease. By contrast, my grandfather has remained attentive to the interest of his audience and as a result can still tell a captivating story. 
 
Another one of my grandfather’s traits that caused me to choose him for this assignment is his skill as a conversationalist and not just a performer. Whenever I call my father’s parents, I speak to both my grandmother and my grandfather. The contrast could not be starker. I generally need to ask my grandmother one of two questions before she launches into a drawn-out description of her day-to-day life, leaving me simply to listen. If she does ask me anything it will be something too broad to easily answer like “What’s up in your life?” In contrast, my grandfather usually comes to the conversation with some interesting topic in mind like whether the unvaccinated COVID-19 patients should be allowed to take up beds in full hospitals in Eastern Washington, or whether they should be turned away to keep the beds open for heart attack victims. He does an excellent job at listening at least as much as he talks and at the very least acts very convincingly like he’s interested in what I have to say. By contrast, the few times I’ve talked about politics or the news with my grandmother, any point of disagreement between us, no matter how small, causes her great anguish. By asking interesting questions and being open to talking about them my grandfather has always made me look forward to talking to him.
 
A final reason that I admire my grandfather is that he has proven in his life to be a very ethical and overall good person. On a political level, his stance against the Vietnam War and his willingness to protest and almost get arrested trying to stop it seems like a brave and right-thinking thing to do in hindsight. Even now as an old man, my grandfather is still interested in helping society progress and keeping up with those changes. Further, more directly in his own life, my grandfather has proven his ethics. He and my grandmother never got legally married, but for my entire life, he’s always taken care of her and treated her with great kindness and respect. Even more impressive he’s taken my father and aunt and more recently me, my brother, and my cousin, into his heart and treated us just as if we were related by blood. When he had to my grandfather even got an office job, he did not particularly enjoy instead of acting in order to ensure there was enough money to raise my father and aunt. The kindness and empathy my grandfather shows to those around him every day are important reasons that he is one of the people I admire most.
 
For these and numerous other reasons, my grandfather is one of my favorite people that I have in my life. He is a skilled performer and has lived a very eventful life so he can always be counted on for a good story. Beyond that, despite his good storytelling, he does not monopolize a conversation but instead is an extremely thoughtful and interesting conversationalist. Though I admire both these features, one of the defining attributes of my grandfather is his kindness to those around him. As a result, my grandfather is an amazing individual and the coolest old person I have ever met. 



