







Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky is a Russian Composer who is responsible for a lot of my favorite works of romantic era classical music. Unfortunately, he struggled with depression and frequent personal tragedies. Despite these issues, he was able to produce some of the most inspirational and enjoyable music during the 1800s.
 
The biggest compliment I can give Tchaikovsky is that his music for piano is not only very enjoyable to listen to, but also to play. As the composer who's music I have probably played the most, both while and after I was taking piano lessons, it was only natural that I choose him. Additionally, his life is very well documented, which means that I can easily familiarize myself with his life.
 
While Tchaikovsky's music is still unmistakably Russian sounding, it was initially panned for not being Russian enough. His confidence to not change his sound knowing it was what he liked is my favorite characteristic of his. Eventually, his sound was solidified as Russian audiences grew accustomed to it. This inevitably lead to his music being heard within the rest of Europe as well, where it became an immediate success.
 
Tchaikovsky also had an admirable drive to make music. He was trained as a civil servant, and he had little music education as Russia did not have a system of public music education. You had to hire a private teacher, who was usually a notable musician that was trained themselves from a young age by another musician. Additionally, Russian music theory was different from European music theory at the time, which led to its rather unique sound. Despite all of this, Tchaikovsky managed to become proficient with musical theory, and also blend Russian and European styles to form his own style.
 
There are several myths that surround Tchaikovsky's life and actions. The biggest myth is most likely the idea that he was mentally ill, to the point that he was afraid his head would fall off when he was composing. This myth was promptly dispelled when it was noted that this myth was rooted in homophobia, given Tchaikovsky was gay.



