







One of my favorite people is my grandfather, whose name I carry on as my middle name. He recently turned 98, yet continues to live in good health. He is one of my favorite people because of the work ethic he has exhibited throughout his life, the wisdom he has gained, the compassion and patience he has for other people, and his devotion for learning.
When my grandfather was 18, he enrolled in MIT studying chemical engineering. During his first semester there, army recruiters came to the campus to encourage able-bodied young men to sign up for the draft to help fight Nazi Germany in World War II. He and one of his buddies felt a strong urge to serve, and so he signed up to join the air force. It wasn't until halfway through his second year, in 1942, that he was called to serve and started his training as a B-17 bombardier.
At the time, a bombardier and his crew would fly 25 missions over enemy territory, dropping bombs, and returning to base over the English channel. After a crew completed 25 missions, they had served their time and were able to return home to America. When my grandfather's B-17 was shot down by German anti-air flak, his crew was the senior crew in the 8th air force, and only one crew had thus far completed their 25 missions. In 1943, my grandfather was shot out of the sky, and arrested in German territory, where he would serve as a prisoner of war (POW) for the remainder of World War II.
When he returned from Germany, he went back to school at MIT, carrying on with his life. After interning at Oscar Mayer over the summer, he decided to change his major to Food Technology - a new major at the time. He would then go on to work for Oscar Mayer (a German company by the way), and work his way up the cooperate ladder to become the Vice President of Operations. This position afforded him the opportunity to live in Japan for a year while in talks with plant managers there about expanding Oscar Mayer's operations.
To this day, when I visit my grandfather, he has book recommendations prepared for me, and he listens earnestly while I explain to him how desktop shortcuts work. He writes down everything he wants to remember, and he keeps things very organized on his desk for easy access. I admire his commitment to learning and keeping his mind healthy and active. He is a generous and caring individual, and a puts a smile on my face every time I see him. Despite the hardships he endured in his life, he has worked hard and made something great out of himself. I can always count on him for wisdom, advice, or a great story.



