







The bicycle is a feat of human accomplishments in transportation. A lightweight vehicle that is as easy to use as it is to walk, but much faster. Even small kids can bike well, and you don't even need a license to operate it. A bicyclist can often fit through narrow passages as well if necessary, something that many other vehicles are not capable of.
If you would drive a car and get a flat tire you would most probably have to buy a new tire to replace it which is expensive and might even have to get help to change it. With a bike, however, a new tire only costs a few bucks and it is easy to change by yourself. Often you will only need to replace the tube as well which is even less expensive. Overall, most fixes of a bike can be done by yourself; re-adjusting the chain, loosening or tightening the brakes, replacing the bell, etc. While in a car you would need to visit a car shop or have a lot of knowledge and tools to do many of the fixes. Even more so with newer cars where a lot of things are covered or hidden, for instance, it can even be hard to locate the battery poles of a new car when trying to jump-start it.
An argument against bikes is that it can get hard to bike, especially long distances or uphill. If you are not a fan of the workout, you can always invest in an electric bike instead which will help you a lot. Although as mentioned, it is a workout which is another great thing about bicycles - you can use them as a workout tool and a transportation tool at the same time. Say that you have a 20-minute bicycle distance from your home to the workplace. You can then get 40 minutes of "free" workout time per day while commuting, and will probably be able to improve that over time. The other options might be to go by car/public transport which does not include the workout but might take less time to get from a to b, but at the same time, you must look around for a parking spot or wait for the public transport to arrive.
Bikes can be dangerous though if not treated with respect by the bicyclist or other people. Many bicyclists die each year due to single or multiple vehicle incidents where they might just fall of the bike or hit/get hit by another vehicle such as a car. One common safety measure is to wear a helmet whenever you ride a bike, but that is not always going to save your life if you are for instance hit or run over by a car at high speeds. Many car drivers are unaware of bicycle lanes when crossing them and can easily miss that there is a bike on them. It is important to acknowledge that bikers exist and that they can be just beside or behind your car even though they can be hard to spot in mirrors. 
All in all, bikes are a great tool to get around with. You can use it to get to your workspace and a the same time catch some workout time. They are often easier to fix than a car would be. They are fast when moving shorter distances and might even outperform motorized vehicles as they might have to go around places where bikes can go through and have a harder time finding parking spots. Get a bike and improve your life today!



