







Although I have only ridden it a few times in my life, my favorite form of transportation is the metro, though it is known by many names. It is the system of under- and above-ground trains found in many large cities, especially in the Eastern U.S. and Europe. Although most probably don’t find riding them especially interesting, I personally find it thrilling.
I have always had qualms with driving. Have you ever been stuck in traffic and thought, “we’re all going to same direction, why are we in 1000 different vehicles?” This question has always bothered by efficiency-minded engineering side, but it has more far-reaching effects as well. When everyone has a car, it means our cities can sprawl out, making each of us further from our neighbors. Cities such as Los Angeles that boomed at or after the invention of the automobile have them built in to their very structure; hour-long commutes are the norm, and trying to get anywhere without your own car is a nightmare. Compare this to older cities such as Paris, which developed largely vertically so that millions of people can live in a condensed space, and the effects can still be tangibly felt when you walk down the streets. Simply existing in Paris (the one time I have gone) made me feel like I was a part of a community, something which I have not felt in any American city.
These densely knit cities, with narrow, winding streets designed for walking, are a natural fit for public transit systems that can travel underground. It can tie together disparate parts of the city that would be otherwise difficult to reach over ground, without disrupting life above ground in the same way that a highway can cut a city in half. While roads feel to me like a necessary evil in the modern American city, metro systems feel like the lifeblood of a city, in the same way a river can provide a communal space for transportation and enjoyment.
In Paris, the metro system can efficiently get you anywhere in the city in a matter of minutes. When one really thinks about how efficiently, effectively, and safely this metro system transports literally millions of people each day, it is astounding. And it’s not just about aggregate safety and efficiency; an hour spent commuting on a Los Angeles free-way is an hour you must spend at peak alertness, to avoid a car crash that will at the very least ruin your day, if not your life. An hour spent on the metro is an hour you can be working offline, reading a book, or just resting. It is just a more pleasant time all around.
Just because the metro is such a beautiful and efficient system does not mean it is right for everywhere. The United States is the most car-dependent nation on Earth, and will likely remain so as the rest of the world adopts or adapts to the emerging possibilities of public transportation. Because of the way our cities have been designed, it would be very difficult to integrate an effective public transportation system into our sprawling urban landscapes, even if the auto lobby did not aggressively lobby against them. It is made even more difficult because of American’s laisse-faire culture, which values individual freedom of movement over the inherently social nature and community control of public transit. Still, I hope that my dream of effective public transit in America can be more than just a dream.



