







  Over the years there have been a lot of fictional characters that I have admired but if I were to write about one, it would have to be Kakashi Hatake from the manga Naruto. Kakashi is a jonin ranked ninja from the village hidden in the leaves who goes on to become the sixth hokage after a major plot event in the series. He serves as the teacher and mentor for the main characters of the show and plays a pivotal part in the development of the story. Despite not being a real character, Kakashi has inspired me and has had a very profound impact on my life. With an immensely tragic backstory involving the death of almost all of his loved ones, that takes places before the events of the main story, Kakashi serves as a symbol of hope to others with an innate drive to overcome his grief and inspire others to achieve their potential and work towards their goals.Known and feared throughout the fictional ninja world of Naruto, Kakashi is an extremely skilled ninja who is also highly respected amongst his peers. Born a natural prodigy, Kakashi graduated from the village's ninja academy at an extremely young age and joined the hidden leaf's covert elite operations squad.Kakashi cares about his students and loved ones to the point where he has pushed himself to the verge of death multiple times in order to protect them. His immense resolution to do so with a smile despite the tremendous loss he suffered at a very young age has inspired me and countless other viewers to stick to my values in the face of adversity. Some might argue that he was born a natural genius but he has worked intensely hard to achieve what he has been able to achieve while resolutely being there for his loved ones. Again, Kakashi might just be a fictional character to other people, but to me he serves as a role model in terms of how I want to live my life and be perceived by others through my actions. He remains my favorite fictional character of all time and I hope I can continue to draw inspiration from him.



