







In high school, I looked down upon him in condescension. John was a brash fellow then - always getting into more than his fair share of trouble, and his reputation preceded him in an infamous sort of way. We were not close in high school at all, but we interacted enough to be more than acquaintances but less than friends. We were actually on the same tennis team, and perhaps the reason I regarded him in a negative light was due to the fact that my perception of him fell flat in the face of the rumors of his exploits.
For one, he was absolutely atrocious at tennis - or at anything that required any sort of physical coordination for that matter. His left-handedness may have had a role in this, but he never seemed to improve at all. He missed forehands, threw bricks in basketball and even tossed a bowling ball into the other lane. His form in these sorts of sports was nonexistent, and he quickly became the butt of the jokes of the tennis team. Needless to say, he quit the team after two years. At that time, I perceived him as an uncoordinated, reckless individual and nothing more.
I graduated high school with the thought that I would never see him again, but by chance or necessity, we ended up hanging out constantly during the stay-home online college year. That period of time was a very enlightening one for me: one particular reason being that I had completely misjudged him. In fact, I could not have been further from the truth. The seemingly brash and reckless nature of his was coupled with a fervor to live life in the most genuine way possible, and his disregard for others' opinions lead him to never be fazed by the prospect of failure. He was not one for pretensions, even if it meant he would be inevitably misunderstood by many.
Beyond all of this, what took me aback as we spent time together was the magnitude of his intellectual vitality. He would never be seen without some sort of non-fiction or helpful book, and we spent many hours into the night discussing and debating a wide variety of topics that ranged from the strange to the mundane. My conversational and reasoning skills improved significantly just by conversing with him, and spending time with him was a welcome break from the monotony of my regular entertainment routine of games, movies, and YouTube. As we continued to better each other throughout the year, for the first time in my life, I felt that I had made a true friend - someone I value as family. Knowing that the season of life was soon to change, we spent our summer days hiking, conversing, and playing a variety of board games.
Unfortunately, life marches on. Saying goodbye to him was almost as hard as saying goodbye to my family. Now I am back in college, and he is joining the Marines as a linguist. Fate ordained that the flickering forms of our lives would intersect for but a moment, and now we venture upon our divergent paths one more.



