







One of the vehicles my family owns is a 2021 Mazda CX-5. We bought this vehicle since our old car, a 2005 Lexus RX360 was had yet another engine failure due to our mechanic using low quality motor oil. Since that car was getting increasingly old and more expensive to repair, we decided to instead opt for a new car that was similar in size but with all the modern conveniences, including back up monitors and blind spot monitoring.
 
The car we settled on was the Mazda CX-5. This was because it had a similar height viewing angle compared to the Lexus and it being fairly cheap since we already owned a previous Mazda vehicle(previous owners got a hefty $2,000 discount!). This meant that we were able to get a new car for around $24,500, which was way cheaper than the MSRP. I was very satisfied with this purchase.
 
My favorite thing about the car is its built-in features. Since all new cars in the state of California are mandated to have a blind spot monitor, this has made driving, particularly in moderate to severe traffic, much more enjoyable. This means that I no longer have to do the whole dance of looking back at my blind spot while driving on the freeway, which is considered a somewhat dangerous task, especially at high speeds. The other thing that is nice about the car is the fact that it comes with automatic lane keeping and vehicle distance systems, which makes it overall a much safer driving experience.
 
However, that is not to say the car does not have its cons. For one, the fuel economy is relatively poor at only a 29 mpg, which means that even with its expanded tank compared to the Mazda6, it actually has less overall mileage than its smaller counterpart. This means that at the end of a 200 mile drive(say the distance between San Francisco and San Luis Obispo), the CX-5 will need a refuel at the end of the trip while the Mazda6 would still be at 1/3 of a tank. On top of that, some inconveniences are still there even compared to older models. Although the road noise for the current year CX-5 has been reduced compared to past years, it is still louder than other cars of its price range, which leads to a more uncomfortable experience for longer drives.
 
Overall, I can say that I was happy with the car. It does its job, and does it well, with very little hitches so far. To write a full review on it though, I would need to have driven it for considerably longer(say 2-3 years) to really reveal underlying problems. This overall is the reason why car reviews are a little misleading. Often, hidden problems will not have come out for many years, especially if they are engineering related. This means that reviews are sometimes misleading for all categories of products, but especially for cars which can remain in use for decades.



