








My favorite vehicle is a bicycle that I got as a birthday present from my parents when I was 19. It was the second bike I could ever call my own, and it was quite the trusty bike. I used it to get to and from school for the first year I had it, and then additionally used it to get to and from work the next year.
My dad and I went into a bike store on the way to dropping me off in San Luis Obispo to start my third year of school. With price in mind, we found a 2018 Marin Rock Spring 1 in a bright red for around $650. Funnily enough, that would be the last bike that bike store ever sold before closing down permanently due to lack of business.
The Marin was a mountain bike with 29" tires, but I never took it on the mountains. When I bought the bike, the salesman said "Are you planning to mountain bike? Because if not I would suggest getting a hybrid instead." Well, I ignored that entirely and got it anyways. It had some power behind it, and I always preferred the momentum and wider tires of mountain bikes, even if I did mostly keep it on the asphalt. I biked around 600 miles that first year, and didn't find myself needing to repair it. The one time I changed the tires that whole time was for an English project, where I made a video tutorial for changing a bike tire.
The next year my bike saw a lot more use. I had a job starting in the summer and continuing through the school year. I would regularly bike 10 or miles a day, and accumulated probably another 1500 miles on it throughout the year. I replaced the chain once, and each tire ones. I maintained the brakes myself and kept the bike in good shape. I stored it in my room for safekeeping as SLO is not a very safe place for bikes. On that note, when I returned to campus Winter 2021 for my 5th year, I realized I forgot my U-Lock at home. My dad had a combo lock with the fortified metal chord, and I reluctantly agreed to accept it and told him I'd go get a U-Lock later that night because the chord locks cannot be trusted. I went to target that night and the U-Locks were sold out, so I planned to go to a bike store downtown the next day when they opened. Well, when I woke up and went out to my bike the next morning, it had already been stolen - on the first day back in SLO - with just a single night of it being locked with an inferior bike lock. So long to my trusty red Marin...
I went to the SLO Bike Kitchen later than day and picked up a new bike they hadn't gotten to refurbishing yet for $100. All their bikes are donated, and they repair them for resale. They have a deal where any bike they haven't touched yet is sold as-is for $100. Well, when I went I asked the worker if I could test-ride one of them and he immediately asked me "Oh the mountain bike on the end there?", gesturing to the bike I had in mind. This alerted me that my intuition on bike quality was good and I was getting an absolute steal on a fairly nice, decently maintained mountain bike, that I ride to this day. It's no red Marin, but it's doing a great job as its cheap replacement.




