







One of my favorite people is Satoshi Nakamoto. Satoshi Nakamoto is the creator of Bitcoin and he (or she or maybe even a group of people) helped start the revolutionary technology by publishing the original Bitcoin white paper in 2008. The white paper explained the Bitcoin protocol which, put simply, is a decentralized database that can also process transactions between different users in the database. Satoshi also launched the original Bitcoin implementation and basically created the first blockchain.
 
I chose Satoshi Nakamoto because he is the father of blockchain technology. This technology is not widely used yet, but it has the power to totally disrupt a lot of centralized institutions and systems, such as the banks fo the financial system, and push more power out to the fringes and to the regular people who use the systems. Satoshi created the possibility of a much more equitable financial system that is not completely owned and operated by the richest 1% of people.
 
The first reason I admire Satoshi is because he is very intelligent. Not only was he able to create the code for the Bitcoin blockchain, but he was able to think through the game-theoretical aspects of human monetary greed and how this would help keep the network running through mining. He was able to tie together advanced revolutionary technology with society and social aspects of humans to create a network that could not be censored or shut down.
 
I also admire Satoshi for his idea of a more fair financial playing field for everyone. In the first Bitcoin block, the genesis block, Satoshi included the text, "The Times 03/Jan/2009 Chancellor on brink of second bailout for banks". This was a headline from a UK newspaper talking about how failing financial institutions would once again be bailed out at the expense of regular people who were not at fault for the institutions' failures. Satoshi recognized that our current financial system could be greatly improved and he created a blueprint of how to do it.
 
Satoshi Nakamoto may eventually go down as one of the most important people in recent history. Although he is anonymous (and may even be a she or a group of people) he has been able to give our generation a way to break free of the increasing wealth gap and centralization of power. He has not only given many people hope for a more fair system, but he has also created an entirely new branch of computer science research and development. Many young engineers now aspire to be blockchain developers, and I think the fact that he was able to inspire a whole generation of technologists is as admirable as it can get.



