







In attempting to start this assignment where I must write about a figure, fictional or otherwise, of which I am particularly fond of, I am confronted with a distinct lack of substance to draw from. This is not due to a personal dearth of social experiences, though there is some or perhaps a great deal of veracity in that claim, but rather that if I am to write about the aforementioned peoples of which I respect and admire, I must necessarily disclose information that I would rather not have others become privy to. Besides, to describe in detail the character and qualities of another person for the not-all-too-altruistic goal of achieving a satisfactory grade, even in admiration and using most respectable language, would nonetheless be a strange undertaking - at least in my opinion. All of that is to say, in a most long-winded and verbose manner indicative of style of writing that is to come, that I am opting to write about a fictional character still fresh in my mind on account of having just finished the book: one Naomi Lovelace from Goldilocks, by Laura Lam.
In order to describe the character of Ms. Lovelace, it is first necessary to provide some background on the work of fiction in which she resides. Now, as I am no great writer, nor even an adequate one, my synopsis cannot do the original justice, but in broad strokes Goldilocks is the story about a crew of astronauts aboard a colonization ship setting out with the task of preparing a new planet for habitation as the effects of climate change and pollution make Earth increasingly uninhabitable. As the crew struggles with system failures and other ethical concerns about what they are trying to accomplish, a number of stories from Naomi's past are revealed to provide a picture of her motivations and nature.
Speaking about Ms. Lovelace, she herself is the protagonist and primary speaker for much, though not all, of the novel. Born as the daughter of a famous roboticist, Naomi was orphaned at a young age due to a house fire accident. After being bounced around a number of caretakers, she was ultimately taken in by Valerie Black, the wealthy entrepreneur and businesswoman who worked closely with Naomi's mother. Under Black, Naomi grew up amidst wealth and privilege, being given the means to pursue her dream of working at NASA and becoming an astronaut; eventually, after a number of rejections and setbacks, she succeeded, becoming a leading expert in space botany and hydroponics. 
Naomi is the sort of person that is not innately adept at most things, but overcomes the challenges at hand through grit and steadfast determination. She was and is a child of privilege but a diligent worker nonetheless, a witty conversationalist yet withdrawn and prone to isolation, a bright-eyed romantic shunned into pragmatism, a chaser of dreams well aware of the path to get there, a pawn of authority but also an excellent leader, a somewhat naive idealist that stays true to her morals, and a myriad of other things.
Ultimately, I think I am drawn to such a character because they represent an ideal to which I aspire, possessing things that I do not have: a strong work ethic, decisiveness to pursue a goal in life, and a veritable wit to boot. Playing into this concept is the notion of privilege; though the nature and type are somewhat different in magnitude and impact between her and I, the fact of the matter is that in both instances money opened doors that the benefactor never had to realize were there in the first place. This was an observation pointed out to Naomi as she first failed to achieve her dream job, and I cannot help but internalize that biting truth for myself as well. The difference for me however is that as of this moment I am not working particularly hard in school nor striving towards some concrete goal, rather simply meandering through requirements and expectations; indeed, squandering said privilege. Maybe I can change that, maybe not, though I admire one who can bring their life into focus all the same. There is that nagging thought though: I wonder if having a role model that resides entirely in fiction is utter foolishness after all.
 



