







When thinking of the individual to write about in this essay about one of my favorite people, several candidates came to mind. I count myself extremely lucky to have known the people I do and for the influence they have had on my life. In the end I decided to write about my oldest friend. Since I have not asked this person for permission to write about them, I will refer to them as Will. 
I met Will in preschool. I do not remember meeting Will. Nor do I remember why I befriended him or perhaps he befriended me. I often think about this fact. As a little kid, why did I gravitate to him and him to me? Perhaps there was something about each other that we could perceive yet not understand. Perhaps there was a sense we could connect with each other on that truly deep level that is so rare. Or was he simply the first person I said hi to. Another extremely important person in my life who deserves an essay of their own said this to me when discussing why we befriend the people we do. They said, "We meet people when we need them." I tend to believe this. 
At the time of our meeting, I don't think I needed Will and he most likely did not need me. After all, we were both kids, we had everything we could need provided for us and we were completely self-involved in the way kids are as they begin to discover the world around them. So why do I still believe that we meet people when we need them? Throughout my life there have been many times I have needed Will or he has needed me. Though in the moment we met we did not need each other, eventually we would. It would be easy to look at the theory of meeting people when you need them and dismiss it based on this example, saying simply, "Well if that is the case why didn't you and Will meet at a later point when you actually needed one another. This gets at something I find rather remarkable about my friendship with Will. I think, had we met at any other point we would not have become friends. We probably wouldn't have even liked each other. In many ways we are fundamentally different. The way we interact with and function in society is different. The things we value in life are different. We are such different individuals that when people who know us both find out that we are friends, and extremely close friends at that, they are shocked. Yet this is the very reason why I think Will and I are so close today.
We've grown up together. Quite literally, I have seen every step in life Will has taken and he has seen every step I have taken. Those steps have taken us down very different paths. We've both learned different things, discovered differing values, and made difficult choices. Though, in the big picture, our paths are more similar than they are different, we have become different people. Which is good. It has allowed us to learn from each other. There are so many aspects to who Will is that I admire so deeply. Will is good at everything he tries. Not just above average, not just surprisingly good at something he hasn't tried before, but genuinely, impressively good. Growing up Will tried a lot of different sports, from baseball, to soccer, to lacrosse, to hockey, and even competitive diving. In every sport he tried he excelled and quickly become one of the best on the team. This is not what impresses me. Well actually this does impress me greatly. One time we were playing soccer and trying to figure out if we could backflip in order to do a bicycle kick and he managed to backflip on his first try, but that is beside the point. The thing that impresses me most about Will is the way he approaches things. His mindset. Will is fearless in everything he does and thus commits fully to doing them. This extends beyond sports and into every aspect of his life. Will dropped out of college after one year because he realized it wasn't for him. Instead, he made his own path and is now very successful. When Will sets his minds to something he does it. He doesn't worry about what could go wrong or the possibility of failure. Though I am far from Will in terms of the degree of this mindset, his fearlessness is something I have learned a lot from and has really made an impact on my life. This and so many other things about Will differentiates us, and I have been able to learn from all of them. 
Thinking about the person I am today, it is very clear the aspects of myself that have been shaped by my relationship with Will. There are so many other things about him I wish I had the words for and so many other stories from his life that are private yet truly inspiring. Even though I may lose sight of it sometimes, I love the person I am today, and Will played a big role in helping me become that person. I often wonder if there are things about me Will admires or has been able to learn from. I hope so. 



