







Since their inception in the early 1900s, aircraft have long captured the imagination of humans and our longing to fly amongst the clouds. Airplanes are some of the most complex machines humans have ever built and some of the greatest feats of engineering only manifested due to the extreme constraints required of aircraft. The A10 warthog is a perfect example of this. More flying tank than airplane, this plane was introduced in 1977 at the height of the cold war. Fearful of the thousands of Soviet tanks that could cross into Western Germany and then France at a moments notice, the US Air Force required a weapon system that could take down a modern tank, while remaining durable to any weapon the enemy through at it. Thus the A10 was born.
The entire plane is built around a single cannon, the GAU 8/A. Manufactured by GE, this weapon is a massive 6 meters long and fires a bullet that measures 30 mm in diameter and is over 10 inches tall. It is also capable of firing at a blistering 3900 rounds per minute. This cannon is normally reserved for naval vessels and is capable of destroying any land based threat with relative ease. One of the major challenges the A10 designers faced, was compensating for the recoil produced by this weapon. When firing, the GAU 8/A generates 44.5kN of thrust, this effectively halves the total thrust of the aircraft, as each of the A10s engines only produce 41kN of thrust. It is a miracle in it of itself that the firing of this weapon does not tear the aircraft apart, let alone that this weapon can accurately hit targets from over 4 miles away during flight.
The A10 was designed to be used for close air support, which requires it to have massive firepower but also the durability to take fire from the enemy without bringing down the aircraft. Practically every component on the A10 can be replaced if damaged unlike many other jet aircraft. The A10 is actually notorious for limping home from battle almost unrecognizable, with damage that would have totaled most aircraft. The A10 also is packed with redundancies to account for components that are destroyed in battle. the twin engines and twin hydraulic systems are the best example of this. Both the GAU cannon and flight surfaces (ailerons, rudder, etc.) are powered and controlled via twin hydraulic systems in the aircraft. In the event that one of these systems is destroyed, the aircraft is designed to be ran off just a single hydraulic system and seal off the leak from the inoperable system. In the event that an entire engine is destroyed, the A10 is capable of flight, albeit without the use of its main cannon.
Despite the land conflicts of the Cold War never becoming a reality, the A10 has still seen use all across the world almost every conflict the US has had since the 70s. Infantry are the first to sing its praise and, many servicemen will talk about how just the sound of the GAU 8/A was enough to raise their spirits in heated combat. However, there are many detractors of the A10, and they argue that this plane does not serve a purpose now that other aircraft like the F16 are capable of carrying similar armaments (except the GAU 8/A). What they don't recognize is that loading up the F16 in this manner removes all of its agility, its biggest advantage in the field. Most of these detractors are not in the field or serving, and people who are directly affected by this aircraft say that there is no replacement for a purpose built machine doing what it was made for.
All in all the A10 Warthog is an aircraft built for a war that thankfully never occurred. If we ever do experience anything close to an armored invasion, the A10 certainly provides some peace of mind. Built around the GAU 8/A a powerful naval cannon, and the need for close air support, the A10 had some serious design challenges from the start. Developed in just under 7 years, this aircraft is a modern marvel and incorporates some incredible feats of engineering in a durable, reliable package. 



