







It's not very easy to pick a favorite person. Pretty much everyone has virtues and flaws both in spades, and I do not pick a favorite without some qualifications and asterisks. That said, the major three positive qualities of my favorite person are honesty, intelligence, and being laid back.
My favorite person is honest, and genuinely concerned with authenticity. This is important to me because communicating where you are at is a pretty important part of connecting with other people, and shows a lot of trust. Honesty about oneself also begets a particular kind of humility, not self-deprecating but literally just being secure in the knowledge of what you are good at and what you are not, which I have a tremendous amount of respect for. Finally, I find it is a lot easier to listen to advice from an honest person.
My favorite person is smart. I feel slightly bad saying intelligence is one of the major deciding factors in who I look up to, seeing as intelligence isn't really a character quality, but I think it still factors into my choosing of a favorite person, for good or for ill. Because I would really like to be effective at the things I do, and so I do tend to look up to those who are similarly competent. Even if you always want to do the right thing, you kind of have to pay attention to actually doing a good job of it, and in today's day and age that often means sitting down and having a quality think about it first. The ability to make clever jokes is also a plus.
My favorite person is laid-back and just very even-keeled. Not quick to hold a grudge, not quick to freak out, and not quick to push an agenda on other people. Somebody who is laid back is in large part someone you can enjoy quality time with. I also think that at least in this case it is indicative of having a strong sense of priorities.
To reiterate and summarize, the characteristics that I am bringing up about my favorite person (and the reason I chose that person) are honesty, intelligence, and being laid back.



