







Stephen Hawking was a theoretical physicist who was famous for his study of black holes. In the 1970’s Hawking theorized that black holes should emit radiation, causing them to eventually vanish. This was a significant idea because it had previously been thought that black holes would persist. What was even more impressive about Hawking was that he was able to make these scientific breakthroughs despite having been diagnosed with ALS early in his adulthood. As a result, Hawking remains one of my favorite people as he serves as a paragon of resilience and maintaining a sense of humor despite hardship.
 
Hawking’s continuation of his word despite his disability is an inspiration. What I most admire about Hawking is his resilience in the face his challenges. Doctors had given Hawking a life expectancy of only two years. Hawking, rather than choosing to live the rest of his life in sorrow, chose to continue with his career in physics. Hawking well outlived the two-year life expectancy that was given to him by doctors, and made significant contributions to our understanding of the universe. Personally, I think of his life as an example of how I should strive to live mine, not in the sense that I should make significant contributions to my own field, but rather that I should never just quit in the face of a challenge. Many people have faced far worse and come out successful.
 
Another of Hawking’s qualities that I admire is his sense of humor. Hawking appeared in several comedic television shows, some of which include The Simpsons, The Big Bang Theory, and Futurama. Hawking was also known for making wagers and having an all-around humorous personality. This is another aspect about Hawking’s life which serves as an inspiration for me. I believe that it is important not to take life too seriously and enjoy the more humorous aspects. Without doing so, we run the risk of becoming robotic as a society, lacking the joy that is important in life.
 
A final aspect of Hawking’s life which I admire is his work in physics. Hawking made several significant contributions to his field, helping to shape our understanding of the universe. The study of the universe is obviously important to society at large, and making a significant contribution on this front is a difficult task. Nonetheless, Hawking served as an example of how we continue to gain knowledge about the universe, progressing as a society.
 
Hawking remains one of my favorite historical figures, and overall favorite people, due to his resilience, his sense of humor, and his work in his field. These aspects of his life serve as a sort of inspiration for me. I feel that I can learn from the way that such a man lived his life and strive to model it albeit at a much smaller scale.



