







My car is a red Honda Fit. It used to be a family car that my parents drove for years, but I was fortunate enough to take it down to San Luis Obispo when I started college. Having a car makes it very easy to be independent, as I can now drive to run errands, get to campus, and hang out with friends. One of the biggest attractions in San Luis Obispo is the beach, which is twenty minutes away from the Cal Poly campus. It would be extremely difficult to ever get to the beach without having a car.
 
One time, I drove my car from San Luis Obispo to Lake Tahoe. Although the drive took about eight hours, it was a very fun road trip because I traveled with friends. We listened to music, played games, and told jokes throughout the drive. Once we reached Lake Tahoe, the road became icy and I had to pull over to put chains on my tires to prevent skidding. The chains provide much more traction as they allow the tires to grip to the road.
 
My car is in decent shape, although it has lived through some unfortunate circumstances. A couple of weeks ago, my brother took my car to go out with friends. As he pulled up to an intersection, he was rear ended by the car behind him, leaving a small dent in my bumper as well as a few paint scratches. Other than that, the exterior is in good condition. I do a lot of painting as a hobby and often transport my paints and brushes in the backseat of my car. One day, one of my paint bottles was not fully closed and spilled on the ground in the back of my car. As a result, the interior of the car has a couple of paint stains.
 
Despite its marks, I like to keep my car clean. I vacuum the interior about once a month, and take it to a drive through wash every couple of weeks. Recently, the fires in California have caused a lot of ash to fall from the sky over San Luis Obispo. This ash inevitably lands on my car and covers the roof in a layer of white dust, making it difficult to keep my car as clean as I would like it. Occasionally, a sprinkle of rain or morning dew can also leave marks on the car.
 
Although my car does have some wear and tear, I am very grateful for the ease and convenience it brings to my daily life. Thanks to my car, I am able to drive the three hours up to the Bay Area to visit my family often. I don’t have to arrange my day around the bus schedule, nor do I have to rely on friends for rides. I can transport many things along with me as I travel, making it much more convenient to move.



