







For the purposes of this essay, my favorite person is David Lynch. I say this not as someone who is an austere purveyor of "art film," which I barely engage in, but as an individual concerned with maximizing their experience of beauty throughout life. His productions are masterpieces, and I truly mean productions in an all-encompassing sense, from his great feature films to shorts to his enigmatic announcements. Seriously, this dude can direct serious movies which steal your dreams and then go home and do it again in a semi shitpost despite being over 70 years old.
 
David Lynch is perhaps best known for the films Mulholland Drive, Eraserhead, and Blue Velvet. Although I have not seen Eraserhead yet (been on my list for a long, long time), I have watched the other two and been extremely intrigued by the experience. Mulholland Drive specifically is on top 100 movie lists quite frequently, and for good reason. The story is gripping, and the cinematography is breathtaking and alluring. Astonishing visuals coupled with awe-inspiring acoustics, from the hair-raising background music designed to produce anxiety when appropriate to the cryptic, dismal melancholy of "Llorando" at Club Silencio, make watching Mulholland Drive a must-have experience. It also has one of the best jump scares in all of cinema. It is personally in my top 5 favorite films of all time. Envisioning and directing a work of such rarely paralleled beauty is remarkable in and of itself.
 
A common criticism levied against Lynch's works is that they are sometimes too philosophical or don't make sense. Not only is this a very lazy remark that aims to skirt real discussion/criticism, it's also usually employed by people who haven't even watched a single film or short of his in its entirety. Allowing for the possibility of multiple interpretations of your work is good, even if your work does not point to one as the "more valid" interpretation. The philosophical bent of the films is much appreciated. Blue Velvet might just be a cinematic embodiment of Kotarbinskian reism, while simultaneously Lynch's other works thematically oppose it. Mulholland Drive excellently utilizes and undercuts the watcher becoming the watched motif in a way that rivals its previous deft instantiations, from the verses of Du Fu and Kobayashi Issa to the short stories of Jorge Luis Borges ("The Circular Ruins") and Julio Cortazar ("The Continuity of Parks"). Of course, there are multiple philosophical implications present in each of his larger works, but even forcing an audience member to latch onto just one is a great way to ensure your movie is experienced ("stays alive") after they have watched it. It is true that David Lynch isn't alone in making films that broach the philosophical, but his are coupled with the right amount of mystery (unlike Hollis Frampton or Derek Jarman) and distanced from expected knowledge (unlike Charlie Kauffman) to be the most enjoyable.
 
Of course, I would be remiss if I didn't discuss Lynch's non feature films in this essay. One of his shorts just involves him making quinoa while narrating peculiar vignettes, and is aptly titled "David Lynch Cooks Quinoa." No, Lynch isn't afraid of quirkish forays into his personal life. Another short, "Six Figures Getting Sick," is an avant garde piece that I will concede might not be for everyone, but still has superb visuals, along with a literally blaring soundtrack. Lynch also created Twin Peaks, a 3 season series combining elements of horror, mystery, and the supernatural, while paying homage to the Neo-noir tradition. Twin Peaks has some of the most nerve-wracking scenes I've scene in any show, overlaid with amazing dialogue. Naturally, the series is no stranger to dappling with philosophy. Twin Peaks' "This is the water" scene is better, and I would argue more inspirational to those with good taste, than David Foster Wallace's extremely well regarded "This is Water" speech.
 
Lynch's work has been an enigma, source of beauty, and genuine source of inspiration in my life. I am enthused by how well he assembles works that are simultaneously commercially viable, weird, thought provoking, energetic, and entertaining. As someone who occasionally dabbles in furtively writing magical realism and philosophical fiction, I would also like to think of Lynch as an inspiration. Someday, when I learn to write well, I would like to expand on a scene or image established in a David Lynch work.



