







Cameron and I were very close. We laughed. We cried. We spent a lot of time together. Alas, he departed from Earth in June 2019. Cameron was my 1998 Toyota Camry.
 
My Camry belonged to my father first. He bought it before I was born, and he used it for everything -- groceries, work, travel. When I was younger, my sisters and I would have an extremely difficult time falling asleep. To help us, my father would take us for night drives in the Camry. My sisters and I would huddle up in the backseat with some blankets and peer out the windows to gaze at the stars. Eventually, we would become drowsy and fall asleep in the backseat, magically waking up in our beds the next morning.
 
When I turned seventeen, I got my driver's license, and the Camry became mine. By this time, my dad had bought a newer car for himself, but he saved the Camry for me to use. At this point, the Camry had seen a lot of wear and tear. The paint was peeling, there were watermarks on the windows, and the cloth seats were beginning to tear. Despite this, I loved it. I thought the wear and tear gave it character. One of my favorite features of the car was how the driver side rear view mirror was zip tied and glued onto the car. In addition to character, I loved how the wear and tear held stories. For example, there was a small coffee stain on one of the seats from when my friend and I got coffee before a robotics tournament. In fact, I have a lot of memories from my time driving the Camry. My robotics teammates and I would drive to tournaments in it, loudly blaring music and singing as we drove. My friends and I would go on late night cheesecake runs. We would pick up cheesecake from Safeway, drive up a hill, and sit in the car. While we were in the car, we would pass the time talking, looking at the stars, and eating. My sisters and I would drive to every hiking place we could find nearby.
 
In addition to making memories, I learned a lot from my Camry. Since it was an older car, it required constant maintenance. I learned how to change the oil, replace the tires, swap out the battery, and jumpstart the car. I learned how to check the coolant and the brakes and where to find all the necessary components. The majority of what I know about cars comes from working with my dad on the Camry to keep it running.
 
Unfortunately, my dad and I could only keep the Camry running so long. It started failing towards the end of my senior year of high school, and we had to sell it to our mechanic for parts. Despite the tragic ending, the Camry had a good run; it gave me 20 years of memories.



