







I recently lost my car because my parents thought it would be more beneficial for my sister to have it back home to drive herself to high school. I know a lot of people take the bus to and from Cal Poly every day, but let me tell you that I hate it. It always seems as though the buses come at weird times like way before my class or right after I'd need to leave to get to class on time. Right when I was ready to accept my bus-riding fate, my girlfriend broke her foot and now I'm using her car for the next few months!
 
I know that sounds kind of heartless of me, but, as the saying goes, "One person's misfortune is another's fortune". So now I have found myself as the proud driver of a 2018 BMW, and this is definitely the best car I have ever driven. I've never really been much of a car person, and I've always been bothered by the idea that cars are horrible investments (speaking strictly financially). So I always thought that driving a nice car wouldn't be that much better than driving any other car. I was wrong. I was totally wrong.
 
Driving a nice car for a little while has actually changed my perspective on cars, and, if I have the money later on, I will definitely be purchasing a more luxury style vehicle. Let me tell you why. First of all, driving the BMW is just so much smoother than driving my old 2002 Acura MDX. It's not exactly quantifiable, but the feel of the acceleration combined with the visceral revving of the motor is just something so enjoyable, and I never thought I would enjoy it so much. Getting in the car and starting up the engine feels and sounds so nice, and it's such a great way to start my day.
 
Along with the overall feel of the car, its mechanics are amazing. The BMW accelerates much faster than anything I've ever driven. Sometimes when driving on an open highway like 101, if nobody is around, I'll floor the gas and accelerate from 65 to 100, and it's such an exciting feeling. You can actually feel the force of the acceleration in your gut. There's also the breaking and handling. The breaking is so nice and linear, and the handling is just so smooth around turns its kind of wild. I can really feel the difference between this car and the older cars I've driven, and I don't know if I ever want to go back.
 
Lastly, there's a whole host of various luxury features that are part of the car that I find so amazing. They are by no means necessary, but they are quality-of-life features that I've found add to the overall amazing driving experience. Some examples are having your speed show up in the front windscreen so you don't have to look down at the dashboard to check your speed, having built in Apple Car Play and Bluetooth, and an amazing sound system. All of these smaller features come together to create a very enjoyable luxury driving experience.



