







My favorite vehicle of all time is the Boeing 787, sometimes referred to as the Dreamliner. This is one of the most advanced civilian aircraft, and contains revolutionary technology for maximizing comfort and safety. Three features of the 787 which set it apart from other aircraft are the carbon fiber frame, the advanced air filtration and conditioning system, and the smart electronics. I greatly prefer flying on a 787 over any other aircraft, though I have only had the opportunity to do so a few times in my life.
 
The hull of the 787 is made primarily of carbon fiber, in contrast to previous Boeing aircraft which were fully aluminum. There are several advantages to this construction, which has only become possible with recent technological advances. First, carbon fiber is lighter than aluminum, which in turn makes the entire plane lighter and more fuel efficient. Though it is more expensive to manufacture initially, there are substantial savings on fuel costs as a result of switching to this design. Second, carbon fiber is slightly more rigid than aluminum. This means that when the plane experiences turbulence, there is less oscillation in the 787 than in comparably sized aluminum aircraft. As a result, travelers get to experience a smoother and more comfortable flight.
 
The 787 has a much more advanced system of climate control than earlier aircraft, and leaves passengers feeling fresher and less susceptible to jetlag. While most aircraft push very low humidity air through their filters, the air on the 787 is humidified to a more comfortable level. The cabin pressure is also adjusted to be more comfortable for passengers than it is on standard aircraft. I can personally attest to the effectiveness of this system. Particularly on longer flights, such as the 12 hour stretch from California to most places in Europe, the effects of the improved air conditioning system are very noticeable. Usually I get terrible allergies and congestion from the forced air systems on most aircraft, but I don't have these problems on the 787. It is easier to sleep on the 787 and feel rested on arrival than it is with any other plane.
 
In flight entertainment is very important these days, especially given that the seats are so close together and that most of the other amenities which used to be complimentary, no longer are. The 787 has excellent integrated video systems for the passengers to enjoy, consisting of a wide selection of films, TV shows, and games. It also has appropriate adapters for most of the common devices and chargers that one might have with them in flight. These systems further contribute to the positive experience of the flight, without added per-use costs on the airline. The entertainment systems on the 787 do not suffer from the consistent failures and malfunctions common on other aircraft, and as such, I have never been bored and uncomfortable on a 787 flight.
 
The Dreamliner is by far the superior aircraft in the civilian air travel space. I personally am willing to pay more for a flight on a 787 over a cheaper flight on another aircraft because of the great value it adds to my trip. Though there are other aircraft which are larger, faster, and with longer range, the 787 is overall my top choice and recommendation for anyone planning a long flight.



