







I’ve been in many vehicles over the course of my life, from planes to boats to cars and busses, but my favorite vehicle by far is my road bicycle. My freshman year in college I joined the Triathlon Team here at Cal Poly and arrived at my first bike practice on my father’s old Novara Element. While the Element was a solid and dependable bike, by the time I was using it, it was clearly showing its years. I rode it and several other bikes, but by the end of the year, it was clear I needed a new bike of my own. After significant consideration, I chose to purchase a black and blue Canyon Aeroad CF SL. Since then, I’ve ridden the bike over three thousand miles and its beauty, utility and sentimental value have made it my favorite vehicle of all time. 
 
When I purchased my Aeroad, I did not know much about road bikes, or what I wanted, or what a fair valuation was. One thing that immediately drew me to the Aeroad was its stunning visual aesthetic. The model I own has a vibrant royal blue front which then fades along the top and bottom tubes through navy to a deep black by the time the body reaches the derailleur hanger. Almost every bike I've seen has a frame with one or two colors, so the fade through countless shades of blue on mine makes it very eye-catching. The bike has a sleek aerodynamic geometry and deep, distinctive carbon rims on both the front and the rear wheels. So much thought has been put into every aspect of the bike event little details, like ensuring the release levers on the breaks do not create extra drag, have been seen to. Overall the bike balances engineering and art incredibly well and knowing that I own something that beautiful is extremely satisfying.
 
Another important reason that my road bike is one of my favorite vehicles, and even one of my favorite possessions, is its usefulness. The Aeroad is the lightest bike I have ever owned. The first ride I took it on, across the 520-Bridge in Seattle, I was barely able to keep upright; every gust of wind that came off the lake made me worried I’d fall off the bike was so light. In the intervening years I have grown used to how light and responsive the bike is and now I almost any other bike I ride feels painfully clunky and slow. In addition to the weight, the bike is extremely dependable and well made. I’ve been riding it for years now, and often fail to do the preventative maintenance that I should be. Nevertheless, the bike has yet to give me a single serious mechanical issue. The spokes have stayed taught. the wheels have stayed true. Not one of the breaks or shifting cables has needed to be replaced. Given how far I’ve ridden the bike and how little thought I put into its upkeep this is nothing short of a miracle. Overall, the Aeroad has been an extremely dependable and fun to ride bike. 
 
Over the several years and many long miles, I’ve ridden my road bike, it has also accumulated a lot of sentimental value to me. I’ve raced a couple of triathlons on the bike, and it has never let me down. In addition, I have yet to crash on the Aeroad. My freshman year I crashed twice on two different bikes, but since I bought the Aeroad I have ridden thousands of miles over the past couple of years including some very sketch descent and criterium races, and have always ridden away unscathed. No doubt this is partially due to my own increasing skill, but I’m superstitious and cannot help but credit the bike as well. I also have so many memories on the bike, from feeling dog tired after climbing to the top of Figueroa Mountain to the satisfaction of descending into our campsite when I went bike-packing with my girlfriend and my friend Kevin in Big Sur. Though it may just be a vehicle my road bike has a special place in my heart. 
 
I’ve ridden my bike all over San Luis Obispo County and beyond, and it is by far my favorite vehicle. Its beautiful paint job and geometry make it an incredibly distinctive bike and make me excited to get out on the road. The excellent craftsmanship and design mean the bike is extremely dependable and fun to ride. Having owned the bike for a couple of years now I’ve made so many awesome memories while riding it and it has been an important part of my college experience. In conclusion, my bike has served as an excellent conveyance and is, without doubt, one of my most prized possession.  



