







One historical figure who I greatly admire is Leonardo da Vinci. Leonardo da Vinci is largely considered one of the genius minds to have graced the Earth, having influenced many different fields during the Renaissance. He touched almost everything, from art to science to technology to humanities.
 
Leonardo da Vinci was revered for his paintings. His most famous artworks were the Mona Lisa and the Last Supper, paintings that are still recognized by nearly everyone today. Credited as the founder of the High Renaissance, da Vinci largely influenced Western art. In addition to being a phenomenal painter, da Vinci was a revolutionary inventor. His notebooks depict his ingenuity -- flying machines, armored vehicles, and solar power, to name a few inventions. He was able to conceptualize them and draw detailed diagrams of them long before any of these technologies were implemented.
 
Perhaps my favorite invention of his was the ornithopter. Da Vinci sketched a diagram of a flying machine that flew by flapping its wings. Many of his inventions were based off studying nature. In this case, he studied the way birds and bats flew and attempted to mimic it with mechanics. He had a sophisticated flight control system that consisted of a system of pulleys, hand levers, and foot pedals. Unfortunately, he was never able to see his design come to life. Centuries later, other people attempted to build the ornithopter and eventually were able to successfully fly it.
 
One of the characteristics I admire most about da Vinci was his insatiable hunger for knowledge. He never pushed his findings or views, implying fame or money was not as important to him. He learned simply for the sake of learning -- constantly observing, experimenting, inventing, and recording his ideas. Not only was he a jack of all trades, but he was also brilliant in each of them. I have always been fascinated by the intersection of technology with other fields such as art and philosophy. Leonardo da Vinci seemed able to combine them and excel at them effortlessly. For that, I hold him in the highest regard.
 
Leonardo da Vinci was a painter, engineer, scientist, sculptor, architect, and theorist who immersed himself in many fields, including astronomy, anatomy, and cartography. His work revolutionized much at the time of the Renaissance.



