







The vehicle that I have the most history with would be my Mom's minivan. I know that it's kind of a boring choice, but I really do have a lot of memories of it.
We first got the minivan in 2004 when I was four years old. This was the same year that my sister was born. Since then it has been in almost continuous use up until the beginning of this year when the catalytic converters finally gave out and it cannot pass the smog check. To replace the converters on this particular car would cost almost as much as the car is worth itself, so repairing it is out of the question. This means that the car is pretty much dead at this point and the last journey it will make is to the junkyard.
I have a lot of fond memories of the van, I remember driving with all my friends in the back seat. I no longer can recall where we were going but I can pull a clear image of their faces and positions into my head. Some of those friends I no longer talk to and some of them I do. It makes me think about how hard it is to maintain friendships when you do not live in the same area.
I also admire the car model itself, it is a Toyota Sienna. Up until the catalytic converters stopped working the van had very few if any problems. It operated with only normal maintenance for around sixteen years of regular use. I cannot imagine designing a system that would operate under similar conditions to a car and be able to not break down for so long. I am sure that it did have its fair share of problems that I was not aware of, but it still feels like a magical contraption in my mind.
The last thing I admire about the van is the level of human innovation that was required to get to this point. Thousands of years of technological progress and the work of millions of humans led up to the point of creations like this. Even now, hundreds of people probably work to assemble one car, whether they are assembling it directly or producing machines that will work for them. Even after that, the amount of time required to raise enough funds to buy a car is significant. A multi-thousand dollar purchase would require almost a year of work dedicated entirely to saving to purchase.



