







One of my favorite people is George Kittle. George Kittle is an American football player and the starting tight end for the San Francisco 49ers. Kittle comes from a modest background as an under hyped and under recruited prospect, but has blossomed into the heart and soul of the 49ers team and "the People's Tight End". His athletic ability and physical gifts are rivaled only by his wild, infectious personality and flair for the dramatic. He's a leader for the 49ers and an icon to football fans everywhere. 
 
Kittle was born in Wisconsin but moved to Iowa at a young age. Born into a football oriented family, Kittle showed enough skill in high school to be recruited to play college football at the University of Iowa. Following in his father's footsteps, he committed to Iowa where he had a solid but unspectacular college career. Despite possessing good speed and receiving ability for a tight end, Kittle was primarily used as a blocker in college, which suppressed his stats overall but allowed him to develop excellent blocking skills. The lack of receiving usage resulted in Kittle being labeled as purely a blocking tight end with limited receiving upside, despite the fact that it was his usage and not his ability that suppressed his receiving numbers. Nevertheless, the 49ers saw his potential and took a chance on him in the 5th round of the 2017 NFL draft. 
 
Kittle always takes his situation and makes the most of it. Drafted to a bad team with a new coaching staff and front office, Kittle was put into a tough situation from the start of his NFL career. After an unspectacular but promising rookie year, he exploded in his second season, breaking the record for receiving yards by a tight end and becoming a household name despite his team's poor record. Getting the opportunity that he wasn't afforded in college to showcase his receiving skills, he took advantage and showed the world that he's one of the best all around tight end talents in the league. He then went on to become a captain and leader of the team in 2019, helping form a core that led the 49ers to a Super Bowl appearance and remains in place today. 
 
George Kittle is a unicorn in the modern NFL, his play style and mindset fit for an older era. The modern NFL is centered around offense, particularly passing offense. Touchdowns, receiving yards, and flashy plays receive all the adoration of fans and the media. Modern tight ends are trending toward becoming big wide receivers with little to no blocking ability. Kittle is the one man bucking this trend. While he does have incredible receiving ability, he is also the best blocking tight end in the league. In a time when it's hard to get a top tier player with either receiving skills or blocking ability, Kittle excels at both. Not only is his skillset remarkable, his mindset is too. Most players would want the glory and admiration of catching touchdowns and scoring points, but Kittle has said on multiple occasions that he would rather land a perfect block than catch a touchdown. He loves the grind and physicality of beating an opponent on the line of scrimmage rather than 20 yards down field. His priorities show he's in it not just for the money and fame, but for the love of the game too. 
 
Although he is an amazing physical talent, what I admire most about George Kittle is his attitude, personality, and work ethic. He's the highest paid tight end in NFL history, but he works everyday like he's trying to make the team. He opts to wear a brace on his shoulder rather than have surgery to repair a minor injury because he doesn't want to have to miss workout days while he recovers. He interacts with fans and the media with joy and playfulness, often bringing the media in on inside jokes with teammates and the locker room. When he's mic'd up on the field you can hear him congratulating teammates and laughing maniacally after he makes a great block. Kittle's reach spreads beyond just football fans, as his infectious personality and affinity for professional wrestling led actor and former WWE star Dwayne "the Rock" Johnson to dub him "the People's Tight End", as a play on a popular WWE catch phrase. He's the ultimate football player, and the total package on and off the field. He encompasses what fans want to root for in player, and person we can all admire. 



