







My favorite vehicle is the 1984 Chevrolet El Camino. While it's not the most modern vehicle, the El Camino has a classic charm and personal connection that make it important to me. A unique car pickup truck hybrid, its a beautiful vehicle that sets itself apart from the cookie-cutter car models that clog most modern roads. Since they were discontinued in the late 1980's, its even more rare and exciting to see an El Camino still running today. 
 
The El Camino is a two-door coupe utility vehicle manufactured by Chevrolet starting in 1959. Not quite a pickup truck, but definitely not a standard car either, it's an interesting combination of two vehicle types. Originally adapted from the standard two-door Chevrolet station wagon, the El Camino has a two-door cab with a cargo bed integrated into the back. This style of car with an integrated truck bed was first demonstrated by the roadster utility in the 1920's, and continued to grow in popularity in the decades that followed. In response to the success of the Ford Ranchero, Chevrolet introduced the El Camino as their own coupe utility to compete in the growing market. With the first produced in 1959, Chevy continued production all the way up until the final El Camino was produced in 1987. 
 
The El Camino has a particularly special place in my heart due to the connection it has to my family. My family has owned some form of El Camino since before I was born. My grandfather drove a beautiful dark brown 1977 model for many years before passing it down to my dad. My dad kept it in the family, frequently using it to drop me and my siblings off at school throughout our childhood. It was then passed on to my older brother, who used it daily until he left for college. Unfortunately, the family car was lost in a fire before I turned sixteen, robbing me of the chance to take my turn behind the wheel of a car that had been in my family for generations. Through good luck and chance, our mechanic came across a 1984 El Camino in good condition that he was willing to sell for a fair price. With such a great opportunity to keep the family tradition alive, I pulled the trigger and bought my first and only car that we still have to this day. 
 
There's so much I love about the car that it's hard to pinpoint a single feature that makes it great. The black leather bench seats are not only unique and different from modern cars, they're also the most comfortable and spacious seats I've had in any vehicle. The car drives smooth and easy; the steering wheel is so fluid and loose that it feels like steering a boat rather than a car. The windows actually "roll down" with a physical hand crank rather than the push of an electronic button. It's the ultimate car to drive around, with the added bonus of having the capabilities of a truck. You can drive it to the party and bring all the supplies with you. The cargo bed can fit almost anything you need to haul around, and the tailgate drops into the perfect seat for hanging out. The clean red and white finish on the outside is memorable and eye-catching. The smooth silhouette draws silent nods of approval from other drivers as you pull up to a light, and you'll never lose an El Camino in a parking lot. 
 
The El Camino has a classic charm  that is nothing like the cars produced today. The coupe utility or utility car hybrid style hasn't been revisited for over three decades. Everything from the boxy front end to the manual roll down windows scream that it's from a different era. It takes three different keys to get into the car and get going: one for the door, one for the steering wheel lock, and a different one for the ignition. These features may seem outdated or annoying to some, but having grown up around them it only adds to the appeal for me. As modern cars continue to converge into similar hyper efficient and aero dynamic models with ultra modern features, the classic style and beauty of the El Camino stands out on its own. 



