







The Miyata Seventen is just one of the many bicycles made by the legendary Japanese bike manufacturer, Miyata. While they are still around, Miyata no longer sells their bikes outside of Japan. Similar to other bike manufacturers, they use a numbering system that differentiate between every model. In the case of the seventen, it's a part of the 7xx series, which is used for mid-end road bikes.
 
The reason why my Miyata Seventen is so important to me is that I've used it as my main form of transporation for getting to and returning from school for the past 3 years. Without it, my commute times would double at the minimum, and the ride it provides is very smooth compared to other road bikes that I have owned. While I am not sure what makes this bike feel better to ride when compared to other road bikes that I have ridden, I can say that the frame is light for such an old bike. I do think that the frame on this bike is much more comfortable than any other bike I have ridden, though. This is because it feels very sturdy, similar to how a carbon fiber frame feels, but also feels more comfortably shaped.
 
Unlike other Miyatas, my bike also has a more modern set of gear shifters. Usually, Miyatas come with a pair of manual shifters that are attached to the bottom tube of the frame. However, I replaced those because I felt more comfortable using the more modern ones, especially since they are much quicker to use. This forced me to replace the handlebars too, since the new shifters can not be mounted onto the old  handlebars.
 
Other than the shifters, the parts on my Miyata are identical to the parts that it came with.The bike seat is definitely the worst part about older bikes, and my Miyata is no exception. It is flimsy, and is nothing more than thin fabric that is wrapped around a piece of cardboard. However, the rest of the seat and seat housing is very sturdy, which makes up for the little to no comfort that is provided by the seat. As a result, the seat is usually stationary when going over rocky terrain.
 
One of the pitfalls of vintage bikes is their thinner tires. This leads to them not handling well on even the slightest of imperfect roads. You tend to feel every bump much more than if you were on a more modern road bike. Regardless of this, I do like my bike a lot, and have chosen it over more modern road bikes. Initially this decision was because of the unique shifters that are found on older bikes that I found interesting. Now, however, I have gotten used to riding my bike and have swapped out all of the parts that I do not like, with the exception of the seat. Once that is done, this bike will be perfect in my eyes.



