







Speed. Safety. Convenience. They have it all. Electric skateboards are a recent innovation that has changed traveling for the better. Equipped with regenerative braking, speed controls and improved maneuverability, electric skateboards can do just as much as, if not more than, a bicycle. This makes my electric skateboard, a Boosted Board Mini X, my favorite means of transportation over short distances. The Mini X is a short form electric skateboard that is a refreshing change from Boosted's line of other products. It features a maximum range of about 14 miles which is plenty for my daily commute to and from school. A top speed of 20 mph and a hill climb gradient of approximately 20-25% makes navigating the hilly terrain of San Luis Obispo extremely easy and fun. The board also features regenerative braking to ensure powerful stopping capabilities without sacrificing a lot of battery. 
 
The Boosted Board has changed my way of transporting drastically and for the better. The amount of time I save by not having to wait in traffic is massive and it is a better alternative to bikes which can be hard to use given the steep hilly roads. Skateboarding is also much more convenient than biking to class on campus since one can simply pick up the skateboard and take it with them to their class unlike bikes that need to be locked up at bike racks. With the constantly increasing number of bike thefts, it is also a concern to leave bikes unattended.
 
Skateboards also offer more maneuverability due to their compact form and thus making it easier to make sharp turns and go through tighter spaces. Also, electric skateboards are not inconspicuous. There is a distinct sound from the outboard motors that pedestrians on the roads can very audibly hear, reducing the risk of potential crashes and injuries. There are concerns regarding the safety associated with them when compared to bikes but in the hands of a capable rider, these skateboards are fully capable of maneuvering and braking even on the hilly terrains. In fact, they are more capable of doing so than bikes which usually still come with strap and rub brakes which take more time to come to a complete stop from the same initial speed and cover a larger distance while doing so.
 
There is also the added additional benefit of the electric skateboard using clean energy when compared to a car that uses fuel. It is completely electric and is great for short commutes which saves a lot of money and time. I have owned my skateboard for a little over 3 years now and it has showed no signs of battery or performance depreciation and is still going strong after 1000+ miles. I will continue to use it as a means of my daily commute while I am in school and hopefully after I graduate as well!



