







My only vehicle at the moment is one that doesn't even actually belong to me - my sister's old mountain bike. I used to have a bike, but it was stolen from my apartment in Mustang Village, so I have been using my sister's bike for about 2 years and will continue to do so until I purchase a car later this year. Having a bike as a primary means of transportation is a bit limiting, but it is perfect for getting to various stores and restaurants that are located close to my house. It also forces me to exercise in order to get anywhere, which is an added bonus, since most of my outings involve eating fast food.
 
The bike is a purple Specialized 21-speed with white lettering, which was perfect for me, as purple is my favorite color. It has 3 gears on the left-hand side and 7 on the right-hand side, which gives it a wide range of settings for how much force is required to turn the pedals, and how fast the wheels turn in relation to the pedals turning. This makes the bike really effective for large hills as well as flat ground. The low gears work well for going up hills, as it allows you to pedal much easier, albeit with the wheels turning much more slowly. Mid-range gears are good for flat ground, since they provide a balance between resistance and speed. The high gears are used for going downhill, since the wheels turn much faster in relation to the pedals turning, allowing you to continue accelerating when the wheels are already revolving at a high speed.
 
One issue with the bike is that pedaling in really low gears sometimes causes the chain to slip, which makes the pedals abruptly jolt and nearly makes me crash every time. As such, I avoid configurations with gear 1 on the left and less than gear 3 on the right. Once this happened while I was riding in the bike lane on a narrow road and almost caused me to get hit by a car, and another time it made me drop all of the food I had just biked several miles to purchase. Another issue with the bike is that it constantly makes concerning noises as if it is bound to fall apart, but it has (luckily) held together thus far. Anyways, it isn't perfect.
 
One of my favorite memories riding the bike was when I rode to In'n'Out Burger at nearly 1 A.M. after waking up and feeling immense hunger. It's a decently long bike ride - about 30 minutes - but I didn't mind, because biking at night is one of my favorite things in the world. Certain stretches through neighborhoods are so quiet and peaceful, with no cars and only the light of the street lamps and the moon. The main roads are also much less busy than usual, which means all of the stoplights are quick. The reward at the end of this already pleasant ride was well worth it. 
 
Often times, when I ride my bike with no purpose in particular, I will call two of my best friends, Brittney and Gary, and talk to them during the ride. I enjoy just biking around the city - talking to friends and having no real goal in mind. This has become a major stress reliever for me over the years, as well as one of my favorite past times, especially during COVID when I wasn't able to see my friends in person. I'm not traditionally a sentimental person, but I have become a bit attached to the bike - as rickety as it can be - and I've considered asking my sister if I can buy it from her and take it to a bike shop to get repaired.



