







My favorite vehicle is my old skateboard. A valuable partner for its time, and a wonderful source of memories from last summer, my old skateboard is very close to my heart. It was cheap, my first skateboard, and will always be special to me.
 
When I was beginning to skateboard, I practiced on my roommate's boards. I tried out trick boards, penny boards, long boards, and dinghies, a style of short longboards. I was thinking about getting my own board, but it seemed sort of expensive, so I just used my roommate's for a long time. When it came to the end of Spring quarter, through, I needed to get my own to be able to skate over the summer. I started by looking at Facebook marketplace, and to my surprise, I found a $40 skateboard used here in San Luis Obispo! I went and picked it up, and realized a few things. For one, it was not a dinghy as was advertised, but was rather a very small wooden board, sort of like a wooden penny board. Secondly, it was way more used than I thought it would be. These things didn't stop me, though. A $40 skateboard is a pretty good deal.
 
So I had a skateboard. The board is short and thin, has hard wheels, and tan grip tape. On the bottom, it has a beautiful illustration of a jungle scene and toucans. I love the design, but it was mostly destroyed from all the use. I started to ride the thing, and it was pretty difficult to use. Its small size made every trick I tried to learn way more difficult, and its tight trucks made it hard to turn. Thankfully, my roommate showed me how to perform maintenance and fix that problem, so beyond that, the board worked just fine.
 
The rest is history. Over this last summer, I took that board everywhere with me. Me and my girlfriend would meet at an elementary school close to our houses and skate all day long, first practicing pushing and basic techniques, then working on tricks and other fun stuff. Basically, I was on that skateboard 20 hours a week. We would take the boards up to different places around where we live, riding bike roads, streets, sidewalks, skate parks, and many more places. I have so many wonderful memories of this last summer, and nearly all of them have to do with that old skateboard.
 
But finally, it came time to hang the old thing up. Every summer has to end. I had been stunted in my trick progression for too long, and decided that a trick board would be a better board to have. In order to save some money, I just took the old busted trucks and wheels from my old board and put them into the new trick board, and I've been riding it ever since. While it's not exactly the same board that I have so many sentimental memories with, it's almost all the same hardware, and I've got the old board hung up on my wall, a constant reminder of the time we spent together. Change is good, but I'll always cherish that old skateboard, and someday soon I might swap the wheels back onto it and take it out for a spin. For old time's sake.



