







I drive a white 2019 Honda Accord Sport. My dad bought me this car in August of 2019.  My car has 192 horsepower with a 1.5-liter four-cylinder engine. It also averages up to 29 and 35 miles per gallon on the city and highway, respectively. The Honda Accord is a four-door sedan that can fit up to five people. It also has beautiful leather-trimmed seats which provide a lot of seating comfort.
 
One of my favorite parts of the car is the technology. The car’s interface comes with Apple CarPlay. Apple CarPlay is a smarter, safer way to use your iPhone while you drive. You can get directions, make calls, send and receive messages, and enjoy your favorite music on your car’s built-in display. Since I used to drive a 2004 Toyota Camry, this new technology is a game-changer for me. In my old car, I would have to use a device to create a radio station that would allow me to play my music. However, now I can just plug my phone into a USB charging port in my car and I get an interactive display that makes my life much easier.
 
CarPlay makes it easy to listen to my own music. It syncs up to my Spotify app and lets me play from my own playlists. I can also start navigation on any of the popular navigation apps like Apple Maps or Google Maps and it will sync up to my CarPlay display. Then, I can create a split-screen display in the car where I have the navigation running on one side and have my music playing on the other side. That is the feature I utilize the most. The split-screen feature is very convenient to have when I have navigation running so that I can see the GPS directions and control the music.
 
Another feature my car has that I really value is the backup camera.  My old car did not have a backup camera, so I was forced to turn around and use the rearview mirror. The backup camera lets me reverse the car without having to turn around or even look at the rearview mirror. The camera may be a small thing but it provides me with a better driver experience.
 
Since I used to drive an old car with no technological features, I really appreciate all the features my current car provides. As a person who enjoys driving, I value a smooth and seamless driving experience. That is why my car is one of my favorite vehicles.



