







To put things bluntly, there has not yet been any particular vehicle in my life that I would consider interesting; vehicles, or at least the sort that one could reasonably own, are just another tool to get from one place to another. Just as one does not have a special fondness for a set of power drills or some other tool, so it goes with vehicles for me. Though, taking a moment to reflect on the validity of that prior statement, I wonder if the ideation of vehicles as tools in actuality explains anything at all: I know a number of people with special interest in their tools of trade, after all. Perhaps then, I only hold this position of indifference because I have never owned a car or a nice bike or anything of the sort, being cognizant of my inability to pilot such things with any degree of skill. Indeed, there are multiple vehicles that strike my fancy - high-speed public transit and spacefaring vessels in particular come to mind - just nothing I would consider mine. As such, I am struggling to pick any vehicle about which to write, but more pressingly I am having a difficult time mustering up relevant memories to form the foundation of this essay. I say all of this, in part to pad out the length of this text, but mostly to explain the vague nature and dry writing of what is to follow as I try and describe the minivan that my mother owned for most of my childhood, a Toyota Sienna of a year that I do not know.
From what I can remember, the Toyota in question was a white minivan with a faintly gold front and rear bumper, though grime, long exposure to the elements, and various nicks and dents heavily tarnished the exterior. In particular, there was a large dent, about the size of a small wok, on the front bumper that my dad wanted to get fixed at the shop but my mother never cared enough to actually follow through on. There was a roof rack mounted on top that never got any use because my father had opted to install it for purely aesthetic purposes, alongside a moonroof that I thought was supremely cool, but that was not allowed to play with after damaging the motor by constantly opening and closing it one time. The back right door was automatic but nonfunctional, and required a great deal of effort to open. As such, me and my brother exclusively used the left passenger door for ingress and egress. 
The interior could seat up to seven people, counting the driver, with two dull brown nylon seats in the middle row and a large seat in the back that could fit three. As soon as we were allowed to, as in when we no longer needed booster seats, my brother and I elected to always sit in the back row because of the presence of side compartments that we would store our toys and other knickknacks in. If the outside was to be considered dirty, the interior was at least an order of magnitude worse, with fabric stains, food scraps, and other bits of trash littering that back section claimed by two young boys - I'll spare you the particularly gross details. The air conditioning flow in the rear of the car was quite weak and distinctly warm, though I suppose that is true of many car air conditioning systems. Beyond that I cannot recall much of anything else.
Setting aside physical descriptors to explain the minivan's particular interest to me proves to be difficult due to the aforementioned lack of memories and investment. The car was simply "the car," that thing we get into when we're going to school, buying groceries, visiting family, and a myriad of other mundane activities. Perhaps in the long ago, I could have proffered a list of the interesting stories, experiences and memories of such, that gave the vehicle a more nuanced meaning, but that time has long since passed.
Still, there is one prevailing feeling I have about the vehicle, that it was something very old. Well, there is also the feeling that it was quite filthy, but that is neither here nor there. The car has always seemed like VHS and floppy disks in a way: still extant at the time of my childhood, but on their way out of style. How much of that perception was true back then I cannot say for certain; I know logically it cannot be entirely correct because the car was bought new some short time after I was born, but I cannot provide any other view from memory. Indeed, I do not recall much about the vehicle because nothing especially interesting ever happened in the car; there were no major accidents nor breakdowns and no interesting travel stories tied to the vehicle because we usually rented a car if going anywhere particularly far. In the end, I suppose it was just a very serviceable tool.
 



