







One of my favorite people is undoubtedly Paul McCartney, rock bassist and singer-songwriter who originally rose to fame in the 1960s band, the Beatles. After the disbandment of the Beatles, he went on to have a successful solo career as well as form the band Wings, who were one of the most successful bands in the 1970s. Paul wrote many of the most famous Beatles songs, including "Let it Be," "Hey, Jude" and "Yesterday," the last of which is notably the most covered song of all time. He is widely regarded as one of the most influential songwriters, as well as one of the best rock bassists, of all time.
 
Born in Liverpool, England on June 18th, 1942 as James Paul McCartney, Paul grew up listening to American rhythm and blues and idolizing artists such as Little Richard. He was encouraged to be musical from a young age by his father, who was a pianist, trumpeter and leader of the 1920s band, Jim Mac's Jazz Band. Surprisingly, when his father encouraged him to begin auditioning for various choirs at age 11, he was initially rejected. This is one of the reasons for my admiration of McCartney - at such a young age, he was told that he wasn't good enough, but he refused to listen. Little did they know, he would grow up to be one of the most famous singers of all time, and would be highly regarded for his wide range, precision and creativity characteristic of his vocal performances.
 
Within the next several years, he met a couple of his future bandmates of the Beatles. First, he met George Harrison on the school bus, and a few years later he met his future songwriting partner John Lennon at a performance by John's band at the time, the Quarrymen. Paul was soon invited to join the band as rhythm guitarist, and George Harrison joined to play lead guitar the following year. The invitation to George Harrison was, in part, due to a lackluster performance on lead guitar by Paul McCartney, who later suggested George as an option to fill the role as lead. This shows Paul's humility, another quality I respect - many guitarists would have stubbornly persisted, trying to be the one in the spotlight. Paul instead realized that his talents lay elsewhere, and that George was more fit to play lead guitar. He also didn't let it stop him from continuing on his musical journey and contributing to the band's efforts.
 
This band became the Beatles in August 1960, and Paul took on the role of bassist in 1961 after the current bassist at the time quit. This was not Paul's preferred instrument, and I admire the fact that he stepped into a role that needed to be filled, especially since it is one that tends to be less of a focus in terms of a band's popular appeal. In 1962, Richard Starkey (also known as Ringo Starr) replaced their drummer, and the famous Beatles' lineup was officially formed. The band would begin to stir up quite a hysteria amongst fans in the UK in 1963, and in the US in 1964, and continued to be one of the most influential and prolific bands for the entire rest of the decade - up until their breakup in 1969.
 
One of the main reason's I have selected Paul McCartney as my favorite person is his artistic progression during the time of his life when he was in the Beatles, along with the often excessive amounts of dedication he showed to songwriting, recording and rehearsing. He began writing hit pop tunes, and gradually progressed into an unprecedented direction of artistic vision, changing the world of music as we know it. As a songwriter who will spend hours on end trying to get a specific sound from a recording, I also really respect the consistency and drive behind his songwriting repertoire. The other band members even speak of becoming annoyed with how often he would be requesting that everyone meet in the studio, even going so far as to avoid his phone calls. And yet, it would seem that a large part of the prolificness of the Beatles is due to the persistence of Paul in encouraging his other band members to create and be their best. 



