







One of my favorite people is Rand al'Thor, the main character of the book series The Wheel of Time. The Wheel of Time is a really long book series that details the journey of Rand and his friends as they try to unite a world that is falling apart so that they can stand against the ultimate evil yet to come. Rand is not always the focus of the series, but he is the most important character, being the chosen hero that is destined to save the world.
 
Throughout the book, Rand develops from a peasant who knows nothing about the world to the most powerful person in the narrative, both literally and politically. There are other good characters in the series but Rand is my favorite for a few reasons.
 
Despite being burdened by powers that will turn him insane and a task so large the scope is incomprehensible, he rarely falters in his conviction. His determination to see out the task he was given, regardless of the personal cost is admirable. Rand's internal struggle over the actions he has to take for the good of mankind is a reoccurring topic in the book. Even when he fails to make the right decision, it does not stop him from trying to make a better decision in the future. He learns from his mistakes and tries to make up for them the best he can.
 
As the story progresses, Rand faces great changes to his personal identity. The people he thought were his family turn out to only have raised him, some of his friends are not who he thought they were, and so on. The people and the environment around him are in constant flux but he stays strong for the people he cares about and works diligently towards his goals.
 
The reason why I chose this character to write about is mainly that I admire the strength and determination he embodies. The ability to withstand anything and persevere for the benefit of those around you is the ultimate trait of a great leader. I do not think that this will become something necessary in my own life, but I hope to display some of the strength that he does when others rely on me. I hope that, to those I love, I can become part of their own strength and help them to confront the world.
 



