







One of my favorite people is Sam Seaborn from the TV show The West Wing. Sam is a lawyer working as Deputy Communications Director in the White House under Democratic President Josiah Bartlett. Throughout the show, he remains a faithful advisor and useful aid to the president while remaining steadfast in his beliefs. While I personally share more in common with Toby Ziegler, Sam is more of the person I wish to be.
The aspect of his character that immediately stands out upon meeting his character is his eloquence and attention to detail. Sam has a way with words that I can only aspire to, with perfectly poignant phrases, excellent cadence, and a commitment to craft the best speech he can. In one episode, he spends an entire day writing and rewriting what was meant to be a simple birthday message for some deputy. Even a speech crafted in the car on the way to its delivery is better than what a team of others could produce in a week.
Sam’s dedication to both his country and his job is apparent in everything he does as well. As seen in the earlier example, he spent an entire day crafting the perfect message for a birthday card, even forgoing a date he had planned. By far the biggest example has to be his stepping in to run for Congress in Orange County. He made a promise to Will Bailey to fill in if his deceased candidate won the primary, and followed through - even though he knew his loss could harm his career.
Above all, Sam never loses his humanity, even when faced with tough situations. Unlike many others in the realm of politics, he never really displays the same level of cynicism all too common in Washington. His belief in the good that he can promote is unshakeable, even when it leads him to butt heads with the more pragmatic members of the senior staff.
Sam Seaborn is far from perfect, but his eloquence, dedication and humanity are all things I aspire to. Beyond these, his intuition and sense of humor are both admirable. Getting to watch this show on Netflix really crystallized my love for politics, and I quickly gained an admiration for Sam as a character.



