







Darrow au Andromedus from the novels Red Rising is a character who fights for himself and the many others who live under a tyrannical ruler. Though he comes from the lowest class, he had the determination to surpass the many barriers in society to become a champion for the people oppressed in society. He overcame his desire for vengeance to fight for something larger than himself. He rallied the support from people of all casts and made them realize the bests in themselves and fight for a cause that was just. Darrow is a character who greatly inspires me and makes me understand some of the best qualities when it comes to being a leader.
 
The life that Darrow grew up in was far from easy. His people toiled in the depths of Mars to support the rest of society. Though life was difficult for him, it was all he knew. He was satisfied with the life he had. However, society was pitted against him, no matter how much he did to support his family, it was never enough. When his wife demanded more for life, the society killed her. Darrow’s life became a path of vengeance from that point. His sole purpose was to tear down the society that had killed the only thing he valued in life. Why I truly admire Darrow, is that he was able to overcome this vengeance and work towards a society where his tragic story would not be repeated.
 
To achieve this dream Darrow had to rally people from all social casts to fight for him. His fight for independence and freedom inspired people of all casts, even those who oppressed his people, to join his mission. He had the capacity to forgive those who wronged him in the past for this pursuit. For his dream, Darrow walked a path of forgiveness and that was a quality that enabled him to succeed.
 
To be a leader is not as simple as just dictating orders. To be an effective leader requires one to instill hope in others and bring out the best in themselves. Darrow had the innate ability to help others find who they truly were, and not what society had labeled them. His unwavering moral compass made others fight and die for him. Darrow could not have achieved his dream by himself, he needed the support and loyalty of those around him.
 
Darrow’s story started off as a tragedy, but instead of letting himself fall into vengeance, he decided to stand for more. He became the leader he knew he had to become to accomplish his dream. He found support from all people, even those who initially participated in the oppression of his people. Through his strong moral compass and perseverance to succeed he accomplished his dream in the end. These qualities that I admire in Darrow are some important qualities I try to incorporate into my own life. 



