







By the time he was 25, Miles Davis had already pioneered an entirely new sub-genre of jazz music. By 35, he had recorded what is widely considered the greatest jazz album of all time. By the time he retired at age 49 (though he was to return to music later in his life), the trumpeter had played a direct role in arguably almost every major advance that jazz had undergone during his career, and launched the careers of many of the vanguard of the next generation.
Davis began his career in the midst of a revolution in jazz. Lead by Dizzy Gillespie, Charlie Parker, and others, Bebop was a reaction against the forms of jazz that came before it. Popular jazz of the time had drifted away from its roots as an African-American folk music, and instead was typically played by large ensembles, sometimes with orchestral accompaniment, and was designed to be easily danceable. Beboppers wanted to further explore the creative (as opposed to popular) possibilities of jazz music, and did so by stripping it back to its very basics: a drummer, a bassist, a pianist, and a horn player (saxophone or trumpet being the most common). They played with complicated chords, convoluted melodies, and at breakneck speeds. Although Davis came up playing in this style, and was more than comfortable with it, he quickly tired of it, and desired an approach that permitted more beauty and feeling. In the late 1940s and early 1950s, he pioneered just that, a new jazz that was the “cool” to Bebop’s “hot,” aptly named Cool Jazz. Although it was also focused on individual musical expression and built around the same combination of players, it created a new mode of expression with jazz music that emphasized deliberate, refined, and richly textured playing, which would not-so-coincidentally continue to be hallmarks of Davis’s playing throughout his career.
Into the 50s and 60s, Davis continued to push boundaries. His main innovations in this period seemed to be in the pursuit of simplicity and abstraction. With his “First Great Quintet,” which featured among others the soon-to-be legend John Coltrane, he developed Modal Jazz, which simplified the song framework by spending up to minutes at a time on just one chord. It was with this quintet that he released the seminal Kind of Blue album, the best selling jazz record of all time. Yet still he was not satisfied; when he grew restless with this ultra-Cool approach, he again shifted, solidifying around an entirely new and much younger band including a 17-year-old drummer. With this group, dubbed his “Second Great Quintet,” he pioneered Post-Bop, a loose style that nearly eschewed chord changes and timing altogether.
While these developments occurred, a new force was sweeping across America: Pop music. Artists such as The Beatles and Beach Boys were changing the musical landscape of the 1960s with every album, and Davis was not one to be left in the dust. Although only married for a year, his young wife Betty Davis (a talented funk musician in her own right) had a great impact on Davis in this regard, opening his eyes to the myriad of new musical styles that were developing. With a much-expanded lineup, featuring three keyboardists and multiple drummers, Davis ventured into a synthesis of Jazz, Rock, Funk, and other styles, which came to be known simply as Fusion. From 1969 until his retirement in 1975, he pushed boundaries with his new Fusion style even further than he ever had, eventually alienating most fans and critics, through his work in this period has been reappraised as perhaps his most ambitious and creative, in an already ambitious and creative career.
Miles Davis, who sadly passed away in 1991, exemplified the qualities of creativity and artistic integrity. He never backed down from a new challenge, and was always eager to push the boundaries of what was possible or expected as both a jazz musician, and as a Black man in the national spotlight. Though he could have stopped innovating at any time and ridden out the rest of his career playing his old hits, he remained defiant in the face of the pressures of fame and success. He is a shining beacon of what it means to be an artist.



