







One of the best and worst cars I've had in my life was a white 2000 Ford Explorer. My parents bought it around 2008 so that my oldest brother could have a car when he went off to college. The car was used, but it had very low milage and was in good condition. My brother used it for four years until he got another car. Since my other brother was already off at college with his own car at this point, my parents decided to give it to my older sister.
 
My sister had this car for the entirety of her own college years. She was the one who gave it the nickname Blanca because that was the feminine Spanish word for white. She also liked the way it sounded. It was around her third year in college when my parents told me that I was going to get Blanca when my sister was done. At first, I was excited because it meant that I'd have a car to use during high school. What I didn't know was that after eight years of use, Blanca would be on her way out.
 
When I received Blanca, the car was still fairly good. However, it had a couple of minor problems. First, the gas gauge didn't work when it reached a quarter tank. When it reached that point, the meter would go up and down so I couldn't tell how much gas was in it. There was one day where the gauge looked like I had a full tank of gas when I knew fully well that I hadn't gassed it up in over a week. The next problem was the air conditioning. It constantly blew out hot air no matter how cold you set the temperature. This wouldn't be a problem if I didn't live in the middle of the Central Valley. Summers were very fun. These were the only problems it had when I got the car.
 
I drove Blanca for around two years. The first year was awesome. I felt like I could go anywhere at any time I wanted. If I wanted to go to a friend's house, I didn't have to get a ride from my parents. The summer was miserable, but nothing I couldn't handle. Then Blanca started to break down even more. It started to make this horribly loud clicking sound whenever you stepped on the gas. If you were waiting by the curb for me to pick you up, you would be able to hear my car coming down the block before I even turned onto your street. Because of that, we changed the nickname to the Helicopter. Not only was the sound bad, but the car got harder to steer. The steering fluid reservoir had a leak in it. Every time I went to make a turn, I had to pull the steering wheel as hard as possible just to get it to move. Eventually, I got sick of the car.
 
We decided to sell the piece of junk for five hundred bucks before I went off to college. I ended up getting a new car that was much better than Blanca. Because of my experiences with Blanca, I'm way more appreciative of all the things my new car can do. It doesn't make any noise, and I know exactly how much gas I have at all times. Blanca reminded me of a sibling heirloom. It was passed from one sibling to the next, but only I was the one to experience all of its problems. Nevertheless, Blanca did her job and is definitely an unforgettable car.



