







No other vehicle generates an emotional response in me quite the way my middle school bicycle does. I don't bike much nowadays which is a realization which evokes deep regret and longing every time it is confronted, but I certainly used to bike a lot. It was my way of exploring the meandering paths of my city, tracing out the roads with my wheels like one traces the lines on their lover's palm. The confluence of person and bike engenders a sense of connectedness with one's surroundings. A vehicle examined in the absence of its surroundings is in essence a vehicle sans transportation, an affront to its design and its Dasein. So in the rest of this essay, I will be talking about my bike but also contextualizing it in terms of its utility in my life.
 
Stating that your bike was integral to your freedom is an eternal cliche; for me, though, it is true. In the interest of saving money, our family only had one car, and it was generally absent since my father drove it to work everyday. If I needed to be somewhere, I had to rely on my bike. I remember the thrill of donning my backpack and riding to the library, picking out books whose yellowish-pale pages I would be caressing throughout the week. Or even going to my friends house where a group of us would play Smash and Mario Party before heading outside to play soccer or frolic or just pass the spring days away. In many ways, my bicycle was a shuttle connecting the worlds in which I belonged, conveniently, and perhaps even apprehensively, passing through the places I would be rendered an outcast.
 
Biking also fostered my love for nature. There were brooks nearby that I loved recreationally biking near. As the wind rippled across my face, I couldn't help but feel a sense of divine elation, like horned Cernunnos himself was breathing onto my face. In the winter, the wind was not gentle but fierce. It bit at your skin, emulating an army of ants gnawing their way in. However, it made one feel alive, acting as its own balm in Gilead. Rarely, when it was snowing out but not icy enough to make cycling dangerous, I would to my parents' dismay venture past those same brooks and adjacent areas. While darting across the roads, I would stick my tongue out to catch snowflakes and feel them melt against my skin. The vanishing of the snowflakes mirrored my stress vanishing as a result of roaming around the serene milieu.
 
My fondness of riding a bike also follows from the peacefulness that followed. Holding the handlebars, having my feet either firmly planted on the pedals or dangling off to the side, posture leaning forward allows one to assume a state of mind clear of distractions. The path ahead demands your focus. The sky's maternal splendor grips your mind concernedly, introducing beauty as panacea to lift your woes. As you climb a steep, long road, the pumping in your legs gradually ascends to a bellow, rushing adrenaline through your veins. Adrenaline that calms, adrenaline that soothes.
 
My earlier love of biking has faded over time, but the memories associated with it haven't. Deep down, I know the fading is temporary and caused by my current lack of involvement in the activity, and if I started cycling again I would definitely enjoy it. Unfortunately, getting into past hobbies is an endeavor I have historically failed at. Nevertheless, I consider myself blessed to have experienced the bliss that accompanied riding my bike.



