







Have you ever wanted to get to school or go downtown without needing to drive your car? Have you also not wanted to ride a bike or walk in this situation? Well, look no further than an electric scooter. In my opinion, the best value electric scooter to own is a Lyft/Bird scooter converted to a personal scooter. Believe it or not, you can convert old Lyft and Bird scooters to normal personal scooters that don’t require money or a GPS or money to use. This conversion is very easy to do, and only costs $30! I used to have one of these converted scooters, but unfortunately it is now out of my possession because someone was lending it to me. In this essay I will describe this scooter in greater detail, explain the joys of owning one, and explain how to convert a Lyft/Bird scooter to a personal scooter.
To get more specific about what this “converted Lyft/Bird scooter” actually is, it is a Lyft/Bird scooter repurposed to be used as a personal scooter. This means there is no GPS in the scooter, and it operates solely with an on-button, brake, and throttle. There is no need to connect with a smartphone, you can just turn it on using the button and then it just goes. The scooter is a Segway brand scooter and is actually quite high quality. The actual consumer model sold by Segway is worth $600 and can go up to 20 miles per hour. The laws around electric scooters state that you shall not ride a scooter faster than 15 miles per hour, so the speed of this scooter is quite a treat and quite useful at times. The scooter’s brake is powerful and can slow you down in a pinch. The frame of the scooter is very wide, and the bars sit quite tall, so it puts you in a good upright position while you ride it. The scooters tires are wide and provide ample grip and damping for everyday riding. The scooter also comes with a headlight and taillight, so it is safe to ride at night and is within the law. All in all, this scooter comes with everything you could possibly need. Now that you know what these scooters actually are, you may be wondering how nice it is to own one.
Riding an electric scooter to run a quick errand when you can’t be bothered to take a different vehicle is one of the most convenient things in the world. Sometimes you are too tired to ride your bike a couple miles, but a couple miles is also too short of a distance to drive your car and find parking. The electric scooter comes in perfectly in this situation, as you can essentially float to your destination. You don’t have to move your legs, and you also don’t have to waste time looking for parking. It’s like teleportation except not instantaneous. Not only is the scooter convenient, but it is also a blast to ride. The electric motor is snappy and accelerates you quickly (but not so quickly it is uncomfortable). The thick tires provide a comfy ride and can also handle some mild off-roading which is sometimes necessary in San Luis Obispo. The 20 mile per hour top speed leaves you with your hair blowing in the wind feeling like you are in a movie. Not only is it a blast to ride, but it is also a great conversation starter. When you pull up on a Lyft scooter in San Luis Obispo, people get interested and start asking questions. When you tell them that it was a Lyft scooter converted to be a personal scooter, they get even more interested. The scooter itself is almost like a party trick and is fun to bring to events and let people test ride. Now that you know how much of a blast it is to own one of these scooters, you might be wondering how you can get one for yourself.
Creating one of these scooters costs as little as $30. All you really need to convert the old Lyft scooter itself to a personal one is a $30 control board that goes in a cavity at the top of the handlebars. This control board plugs into the same things that the GPS plugs into. To install the board all you need to do is to pull the screws off the GPS box at the top of the handlebars, remove the GPS holder, unplug the control board which also contains the GPS, and then plug in your new $30 control board. This control board is what controls the amount of power given to the motor based on the throttle. It also has a screen on top of it which provides you with a speedometer as well as controls to turn the headlights on/off. Now that you have a general idea of how easy it is to convert a GPS-tracked, smartphone-controlled Lyft scooter to a fully personal one, you may be wondering how you can get your hands on such a scooter. The best way to get a Lyft scooter is to find them at auctions, in storage units, or being sold by Lyft themselves. There are, however, other ways to obtain a Lyft scooter for free. That is for yourself to figure out though, I cannot tell you here for legal reasons.
To summarize, we’ve gone over the specs of a converted Lyft/Bird scooter, how great it is to own one of these scooters, and an overview of the process to convert a Lyft/Bird scooter to a personal scooter. With this given information, I hope you can now go out into the world and get your own personal scooter and use it to spread joy and improve your life. The joy of owning one of these scooters is a great pleasure and should not be taken for granted. Now is the time to get your own personal Lyft/Bird scooter while the scooter models are still vulnerable enough to be converted!



