







Evidenced by physicists Isaac Newton and Albert Einstein, or mathematicians John von Neumann and Alan Turing, the mind can venture the galaxy without ever moving, discover properties still widely used far into the future, create a game that can be used to study economics, or save countless of lives. It’s no exception for mathematician John Forbes Nash Jr., who, during his lifetime, created the Nash Equilibrium, a solution concept, or a prediction for how a game will be played, for two or more player non-cooperative games in game theory, which later landed him a Nobel Prize in Economics. Born in Bluefield, West Virginia on June 13th, 1928 and died in Monroe Township, New Jersey on March 23rd, 2015, John Nash Jr. has written multiple heavily influential papers in mathematics while dealing with his schizophrenia and pressuring marriage. Nash lived with his sister and mother, nicknamed “Virginia”, and later moved out to attend Carnegie Institute of Technology, where he was recognized and accepted into Princeton University. His time at Princeton would later become one of the most important time periods in his life, as it was where he wrote his Nobel Prize winning paper on the Nash Equilibrium.
As opposed to other mathematicians, who would stray away from a problem if it took too long to solve, Nash could spend years concentrating on a problem until he is sure he has the solution. John Von Neumann was the complete opposite of Nash. Neumann is considered to be one of the greatest mathematicians at the turn of the 20th century. In seconds, he could solve numerous famous mathematical problems in his head. His work in economics and creation of a new field, named game theory, was directly defied by Nash, who claimed there was multiple holes in the theory, all of which he could fix.
All those traits would later become the building blocks of Nash’s personality and his defensive nature. Those qualities in the 1950s would also influence how Nash would later tackle well-known difficult problems with little outside help. In the 1940s and 1950s, there were an abundance of problems and unproven conjectures for any bright and ambitious mathematician to tackle such as Nash. Admittedly, his own inability to admit defeat and his arrogance would later come back and haunt him as well. His arrogant nature is most prominent when he refused to marry Eleanor, the women who was bearing his child, due to him deeming her as someone that was not worthy or unequal to him. Any account of Nash’s intent whether or not to marry Eleanor was never confirmed to be true. A likely reason was his obsession with class, similar to his father’s, where he believed that Eleanor’s social inferiority would have been difficult for her to mingle with other wives of the Cambridge mathematical community. When their son, John David Stier, was born, Eleanor had to give him up to foster care, which drove her mad. Her son’s leave made her believe that Nash “left all the anguish and the worry to her and gave no sign that he understood, even remotely, what such a separation might mean for a mother or her child”. Of course this was what made Nash’s life most despicable, his nonexistent capacity for empathy. Nash would end up losing multiple relationships, friendships, and make numerous enemies in his lifetime.
Although Nash was childish at times, his arrogance and headstrong will was still what made his life admirable. Ambrose once challenged Nash to solve the embedding problem for manifolds, a notoriously difficult problem that had been around since Riemann, a 17th century mathematician, first proposed it. When Nash gave his lecture two years after the bet with Ambrose, he made it very clear that he solved the problem merely because of the bet. This speaks volumes about who Nash is as a person, a mathematician who saw “mathematics not as a grand scheme, but as a collection of challenging problems”. Nash didn’t call himself a game theorist, or a topologist, but rather a mathematician who went to other fields that practically nobody had achieved anything. He would take this opportunity to find any problems that piqued his interest. The embedding problem proved itself to be quite a challenge for Nash, but he never gave up. Solving such an infamous problem also took a lot of courage as he brought himself into the realm where people believed what was possible and what wasn’t, and directly challenged them. After he succeeded in solving the problem, Ambrose, being the fine mathematician he is, made “his applause … as loud or louder than anyone else’s”. Moving past his childish traits, one has to truly admire what a brilliant mind Nash has when given the opportunity to see it in action.
As brilliant as Nash was, his social IQ was still very much lacking. One of the biggest mistakes he made was not only that he refused to marry Eleanor, but that he began to date another woman after he left her. That decision would later come back and haunt him when his father calls and tells him of his knowledge of Nash’s son. Eleanor has gotten a lawyer and demanded child support payments, but Nash still “was inclined to refuse to pay”. His decision shows who he really is as a person, which is a man who won’t do the right thing because he believes it to not be worth his time. 
Normally people would say a hero is someone who saves lives or makes personal sacrifices for the benefit of others. A hero might not necessarily be known nationally or internationally such as a celebrity, but still famous in their own right, either to themselves or those close to them. John Forbes Nash Jr. was undoubtedly a hero. 



