







In high school, I drove a 1995 Lexus LS 400. That car was obviously very old at the time that I used it, and it had well over 200,000 miles on it. What is even more surprising is that the car remains in my family today, and it is running well. The Lexus also has some sentimental value to my family. It was one of the first cars that my parents ever bought. Having been in the family for well over 20 years, I find this car quite interesting.
 
As previously mentioned, one of the reasons that I find my LS 400 so interesting is that it has been in the family for such a long time. Many cars do not even last 10 years much less the nearly 27 years for which this car has been running. Perhaps one of the reasons why the LS 400 continues to run so well is related to the perception that Japanese cars tend to be more reliable than others on average. This perception can be partly attributed to the Toyota Production System which is implemented in Japan just a few years before the car would have been released. This system has two main concepts. The first is that they will make only what is needed, when it is needed, and only in the amount that is needed. The second is that the system should be automated but maintain the human touch. Because the Toyota Production System contains both social and technical aspects, it changes the way that the car manufacturers function as a whole, down to the very way that workers approach building a car. This cohesive vision leads to products that are increasingly reliable.
 
Another reason why I find my car so interesting is its engine. The car’s engine is a 4-liter V-8 engine, and it would have achieved about 260 horsepower off of the assembly line. These types of engines simply do not get put into cars in modern times. Because the V-8 engine is so economically inefficient, it is very difficult for car manufacturers to use such an engine and meet the environmental regulations that are in place today. As such, I feel that my car has a unique quality that may be extremely rare several years into the future. This is because many future vehicles will be electric, eliminating the need for internal combustion engines altogether. Perhaps if my car continues to run the way that it has, it may be of antique value at some point.
 
A final reason as to why I find this car interesting is the sentimental value that it has for me. It is the car in which I learned how to drive, and it is the first car that I every used on a daily basis. I am also proud to say that I never once crashed or damaged it in any way. As such I have several fond memories with that car, and I hope that it continues to run well into the future.
 
The reliability, engine, and the sentimental value of my Lexus LS 400 are key reasons why I find my car interesting. It has truly been a surprise to have a vehicle that has worked as reliably as this car has, and I continue to be amazed that it has not yet had many major problems. Perhaps there will be a time in the future where I will be able to get the car back.



