







One of my favorite people is Lucas, one of the other students in the Math graduate program with me. Lucas is a man of many talents: beyond his ability to do math, he is also a philosopher, comedian, and artist. Though I only met Lucas 18 days ago, I already feel as if I have known him for a lifetime. His radiant personality unites us math students against an otherwise irreconcilable torrent of complexity, obscurity, and abstraction.
 
Lucas was raised in a small farming town in North Dakota. From a young age, he displayed an incredible talent for mathematics. Since his parents are sheep farmers, Lucas spent a lot of time on sheep counting problems. For example, he would ponder the number of ways that the sheep could be arranged into the pens on his family farm. Given that only so many sheep can be fit into a pen, and that each sheep has a distinct personality and preferences, this was a challenging and multifaceted problem. Another problem was to consider the number of sheep over time as a sequence, and how this would be affected by the groupings of sheep. The study of sheep prompted Lucas' love for mathematics, which is why he ultimately chose to study it as a student at Cal Poly. 
 
Philosophy is Lucas' second favorite subject after math. He is particularly concerned with describing the existence of the soul, and of consciousness. I have spent quite some time discussing this with him, but his knowledge goes far beyond what I can comprehend. When one is presented with the problem of determining whether an entity is conscious, it is necessary to first define consciousness. This definition can vary depending on the entity being described, which makes the problem very difficult to generalize. In fact, the definition of consciousness is so elusive, Lucas is hesitant to even make the claim that he himself is conscious. This lends itself to an existential paradox, something which has plagued Lucas for quite some time, and that I tend to avoid altogether.
 
One of Lucas' greatest weaknesses stems from an early childhood tragedy. While out on a hike, Lucas' great aunt Mary-Beth Gertrude was lost to and presumably killed by a large group of rabid squirrels. The loss took a great toll on his mental health, and even put a pause to his sheep counting for over a year. An otherwise fearless character, Lucas is deathly afraid of squirrels because of the incident. Every time he sees a squirrel on campus, he sprints to the nearest building for cover. This presents a difficult challenge, given the frequency of squirrels on campus. Despite my repeatedly reminding him that squirrel related deaths are substantially less common in California than they are in North Dakota, the fear is too deeply ingrained in his behavior. Nevertheless, Lucas thrives in the math department here and doesn't let his squirrel phobia get in the way of his studies.
 
Lucas' personality is rounded off by his unparalleled sense of humor. Though his comedic repertoire is rather limited, the quality and timing of his content is impeccable.  Lucas has exactly three jokes which he tells, of which I have so far only heard the first one. It is impossible for me to encapsulate the innately hilarious core of this joke, though I can say that it has to do with spontaneous and unexpected harmonic systems. Lucas effectively uses humor to relieve the tension which naturally arises in such a rigorous environment. He also always laughs at my jokes, even when nobody else does, which makes me feel a lot better about myself.
 
Every day I am thankful that I have Lucas in my life. He brings light to the darkest of situations, and lifts up everyone around him. His mathematical brilliance has greatly aided me in my own studies, especially when it comes to counting problems which I find very challenging. Lucas aspires to be an entrepreneur, and hopes to develop software and an app for combinatorial sheep management, a space which nobody has thus far been brave enough to explore. I believe wholeheartedly that he will succeed in accomplishing his dreams, and I will do all that I can to support him on his journey.



